The Memorandum of Understanding was signed by the sector's umbrella organizations, the Retail Trade Association of Kenya (RETRAK) and the Meat and Livestock Exporters Industry Council of Kenya (KEMLEIC), on the back of studies that have revealed gaps in consumer awareness and perceptions about meat safety and quality. A consumer awareness survey commissioned by the Kenya Markets Trust in 2019 exposed a gap in information flow to consumers on the quality and use of meat products leading to ill-informed consumer perceptions. This exposed them to consumption of unsafe meat and high costs passed on to them from losses in the value chain. RETRAK Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Wambui Mbarire, said the two associations had resolved to start a national conversation to educate consumers on the attributes of safe meat. "How do we ensure that the food being served out of the retail market, be it formal or informal, is safe for consumption and of good quality as we look to reduce the health bill for the average Kenyan?" Mbarire posed. On his part, KEMLEIC CEO Nicholas Ngahu spoke of the difference in standards enforced by the export markets and those adhered to locally. "For export to happen every procedure has to be followed to the letter but if you visit a local slaughterhouse there is almost zero compliance to the safety procedures that have been laid down. Yet that is what ends up in our local butcheries," he explained. Kenya's meat is also ranked among the most expensive per kilo globally, mainly because of lack of modernization in the value chain. For instance, the sector records up to 50% mortality losses from birth to sale of livestock and about 12% post-harvest losses of meat. The costs are inevitably borne by the consumer. Under the MoU, the associations committed to short, medium and long-term objectives that they hope will modernise the local meat market, improve on quality of meat and enhance consumption of more affordable and safe meat by all consumers. --AllAfrica--