Bafana Bafana have not qualified for the World Cup since 2002 and eight years later they became the first hosts to be eliminated in the group stage of a World Cup. At continental level their sole Africa Cup of Nations triumph was back in 1996. McCarthy, who led them to the Nations Cup runners-up spot in Burkina Faso two years later, reckons the current crop of players are not just hungry enough. I don’t think our South African players have that hunger, desire and ambition to play against the best players in the world,” the former FC Porto forward told BBC Sport Africa. “To play against the best teams in the world or to play in the champions league or in the Europa League. “I think our players are happy to be in South Africa, happy just to be good on one continent, but not to expand their wings or to go to Europe and struggle. “When you come to Europe you will struggle but it will pay dividends because when you go back to Africa you’ll see how you stand out because in Europe you’re playing against the best players in the world period.” He pointed to the number of players who plied their trade around Europe during his career.  “That is what my generation had — look, I played in Ajax and Porto, Quinton Fortune was at Manchester United, Steven Pienaar at Ajax and later Everton, Shaun Bartlett Charlton, Lucas Radebe Leeds, Aaron Makoena at Blackburn Rovers and the rest,” he highlighted. “We had so many players pushing it at the highest level. “Don’t get me wrong maybe we were not the best or important players at our clubs — but because we were learning, whenever we came back home, we put what we had been through to make Bafana Bafana great. “Now almost all of them are comfortable just being at home and even the few who go out are not a mainstay in their teams. We need good characters.” The 43-year-old is currently in Scotland, where his wife is based, after leaving his job as the head coach of Cape Town in 2019 but he is not closing the doors on a return to the touch line. However, he does feels being black might go against him getting a job in Europe. “In Europe its hard as we’ve literally got none (black coaches) if you ask me, just maybe Chris Hughton at Nottingham Forest and then there is Darren Moore, at Doncaster Rovers,” he added. --BBC--