President Donald Trump’s false declaration of victory in the early hours of Wednesday, as ballot counting continued in several pivotal states, roiled supporters of Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Biden supporters expressed heightened fears that the Republican incumbent might not accept the election result if he were to lose. Many of those in Trump’s voter base, meanwhile, echoed his unsubstantiated allegations of widespread electoral tampering. “Election fraud is running rampant,” said Trump voter Jimmie Boyd, 48, a North Carolina gun rights activist with ties to local militia groups.  Boyd said he worries that “left wingers” could “destroy entire cities,” while protesters on the right will be demonised as “racist, phobic freaks of nature.” The highly charged atmosphere reached a fever pitch in Detroit where about 30 observers, mostly Republicans, were barred from entering a vote-counting hall by election officials who cited indoor capacity restrictions imposed to prevent spread of the coronavirus. Police were called to enforce the decision. Many of those excluded stood outside the hall voicing their protest and singing “God Bless America” while a second group of Republican observers who were denied entry held a prayer circle nearby. They also broke into chants of “stop the vote” and “stop the count.” The confrontation began not long before CNN and Edison Research declared Biden the winner in Michigan, where Trump has threatened to challenge the results. The post-Election Day tension proved too much for some to bear. Some Americans said they would march in the streets against Trump’s overnight call for a halt to ballot tabulations. Others turned to caffeine or distracted themselves with gardening as they fretted at home. “It’s like the twilight zone,” said Tanya Wojciak, 39, who reckoned she had downed 17 cups of coffee and found herself pacing the floors of her home in Cortland, Ohio, as she watched results trickle in from battleground states deluged by record-breaking numbers of early mail-in ballots. “Trump’s scary, premature declaration of victory has me unnerved,” said Wojciak, who said she voted for Biden even though she is a Republican. Legal experts have said the election outcome could become bogged down in state-by-state litigation over a host of issues, including whether late-arriving ballots can be counted. Protests brewing Some activists said they had fully prepared for Trump to flout conventions over the results of Tuesday’s election. The “Protect the Results” coalition of over 130 groups, from Planned Parenthood to Republicans for the Rule of Law, said it was organising some 500 protests around the country. Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, cited two “criteria” for taking to the streets. “One is Trump officially trying to block the counting of votes and other was falsely declaring that he won, and he did both last night,” Green said. About 100 people gathered for an interfaith rally and march through downtown Detroit on Wednesday morning to demand a full vote count and orderly transition of power. --reuters--