The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that nothing had been finalised and that no orders have been received by the US military. However, there appeared to be a growing expectation on Tuesday that drawdown orders would be coming soon. The Pentagon declined to comment on future decisions on troop deployments. Reuters reported on Monday that Trump was expected to settle for a partial withdrawal from Afghanistan, despite promising to pull out all troops by Christmas. He is also expected to order a small drawdown in Iraq, from 3 000 to 2 500, US officials say, speaking on condition of anonymity. The US has about 700 troops in Somalia focused on helping local forces defeat the al Qaeda-linked al Shabaab insurgency, in a mission that receives little attention in the US but is considered a cornerstone of the Pentagon’s global efforts to combat al Qaeda. Trump’s newly-installed acting Defence Secretary, Christopher Miller, a former Green Beret and counter-terrorism official, is taking a hard look at Somalia and could opt for keeping a minimal presence there and stop relying on large deployments to combat the group. Critics say such a radical change in approach carries significant risk. Colonel Ahmed Abdullahi Sheikh, who served for three years as the commander of the Danab special forces until 2019, said any such decision to pull back would not be based on the counter-terrorism threat in Somalia and could undermine trust in the US. “This is being dictated by politics,” he said. The US already pulled out of Bossaso and Galkayo around three weeks ago. They remain in the southern port city of Kismayo, a special forces airbase in Baledogle and in the capital Mogadishu, but a rapid pull-out risks ceding ground to al Shabaab, Sheikh said. “It would create a vacuum. The Somali security forces have good morale because of the US troops … there’s the possibility of air support if they are attacked, they can have medevacs,” Sheikh said. Somalia has been riven by civil war since 1991, but over the past decade the African Union-backed peacekeeping force has clawed back control of the capital and large swathes of the country from al Shabaab. --Reuters--