The Islanders have agreed to play their home game in South Africa in a bid to restrict official and player movement because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Uninspiring performances by Bafana Bafana’s in their last two games, albeit friendlies, produced a draw and a loss against Namibia and Zambia respectively. The games were in preparation for the qualifiers of the 33rd edition of the AFCON tournament to be held in Cameroon in 2022. They are currently third in Group C with Ghana and Sudan ahead of them, while minnows São Tomé and Principe are at the bottom. Cape Town City defenders, Thamsanqa Mkhize and Abbubaker Mobara, have both been ruled out of Bafana Bafana‘s upcoming 2021 Afcon qualifiers after testing positive for the coronavirus. The Bafana Bafana duo has been put in isolation. The news comes ahead of Bafana‘s back-to-back Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Mkhize and Mobara were already in the national camp ahead of the two matches against São Tomé and Principe. Bafana Bafana head coach, Molefe Ntseki says despite the challenges faced by the team, he is still optimistic about a great performance as they are set to face São Tomé and Principe in the 2022 Afcon Qualifiers. The two teams will play two matches in South Africa on Friday and Monday, respectively. Bafana, who are positioned 14th on the Confederation of African Football rankings, have been forced to make changes after six players were dropped out of the team due to injuries. Others were forced to isolate after they reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. Bafana Bafana head coach says, “We have made six changes. We saw Thabang Phete from Portugal being replaced by Musa Lebusa from Sundowns. We have seen Andile Jali being replaced by Vincent Pule from Pirates. Aububar Mobara being replaced by Thapelo Morena. Initially, we had Reeve Frosler who was replaced by Thami Mkhize and Mkhize had to replaced by Tsepo Rikhotso.” Musa Lebusa, Vincent Pule, Thapelo Morena, Tshepo Rikhotso and Thabo Nodada have been drafted into the Bafana Bafana squad to play Sao Tome. While in Durban, Bafana Bafana and the provincial government will unveil the tombstone of their slain former skipper Senzo Meyiwa on Tuesday. The first match will be played at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Friday evening while the second game takes place at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth, three days later. Kick-off at 21h00 and live on SABC. --sabc--