On his debut, Sebastian Haller stepped off the bench to score the second goal for the Ivoirians after Yao Gervinho had broken the deadlock. Polin Voavy grabbed one back for Madagascar in the second half, but they couldn’t compete the comeback job. The opening half didn’t make for many scoring chances and the few that were there, belonged to the home side who looked keen to pick victory and bounce back from their shock loss to Ethiopia on match day two last November. The Ivoirians were however forced into a change in the 20th minute when Jonathan Kodjia had to come off injured after landing awkwardly and was replaced by Sebastian Haller who was coming in for his debut. Madagascar had the first opportunity of the game in the 24th minute when Carolus Andriamahitsinoro attempted to catch Ivorian keeper Sylvain Gbohou off his line with a freekick, but the burly custodian managed to backtrack and tip the ball behind for a corner. But from then on it was the hosts who dominated the chances and came close in the 34th minute when Franck Kessie’s header off a Nicholas Pepe freekick bounced just wide with the keeper beaten. Three minutes later, Serge Aurier did well on the right before delivering an enticing low cross, but the ball trickled across the line with Haller agonizingly throwing himself forward in a bid to give it a touch into the gaping goalmouth. At the stroke of halftime, Pepe had a chance of his own when a poorly defended ball from a corner landed on his path, but his volley flew straight into keeper Melvin Adrien’s arms. In the second half though, Cote d'Ivore were different, and within nine minutes of the restart, they were 2-0 up. Gervinho made it 1-0 three minutes into the second half with a sweetly struck volley after Pepe’s pass inside the box was blocked. In the 54th minute, the Ivoirians were 2-0 up when debutant Haller scored on his first ever start for The Elephants, diving to head home from a yard out after Max Gradel squared the ball to him when he dispossessed Jeremy Morel. Madagascar were quickly shocked going 2-0 down in quick succession and they put in the work to try and get back into contention. They halved the deficit in the 59th minute through Voavy’s shot, the Egypt based player striking a strong low shot after being set up by Marco Ilaimaharitra. The home side started living dangerously with Madagascar seeing an opportunity to equalize. However, the back-line sat compact to ensure they pick up victory and put their qualification path back on track. --cafonli Cameroon thrash Mozambique in Douala, Cape Verde and Rwanda goalless Cameroon picked their second Group F victory in the 2021 Total Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers in emphatic fashion, thrashing Mozambique 4-1 at the Douala reunification stadium on Thursday to move top of the pile. Vincent Abubakar scored twice with Frank Zambo-Anguissa and Clinton Njie adding one each as the hosts for the next AFCON edition picked a comfortable, morale boosting victory. The hosts were offensive from the word go with Jean Charles Casteletto and Christian Bassogog initiating some chances that were however not converted. After knocking on the door without an answer, Cameroon finally broke the deadlock after 37 minutes when Aboubakar headed home after Bassogog’s initial effort was blocked. Despite going down, The Mambas tried to give in a fight but couldn’t get past Andre Onana who kept a hawk-eyed guard to ensure the Indomitable Lions carried their slim lead to the break. Two minutes after halftime, they were 2-0 away when Aboubakar completed his brace when he picked up a backheel pass from Toko Ekambi before striking the ball at goal, a slight deflection taking it off keeper Pedro Frenque's sight. With a two goal cushion, Cameroon were more comfortable and played the ball with ease. They would go 3-0 up in the 58th minute when Anguissa thumped home a bullet header off a Moumi Ngamaleu cross. Mozambique grabbed one back with 15 minutes left on the clock when substitute Cumbane Kamo Kamo found the back of the net barely 10 minutes after coming on. However, Cameroon would seal the victory 10 minutes to time Njie finishing off a Zambo-Anguissa pass. --Caf--