However, ESPN claims Dortmund's refusal to lower their €120 million($142.2 million) asking price is proving troublesome for United. While talks remain at the early stage, the outlet reports that the deal could even collapse as a result. It's reported Executive Vice-Chairperson, Ed Woodward, has made it clear to officials from Dortmund that their valuation of Sancho is 'unrealistic' at present. He feels the financial issues stemming from the Covid-19 outbreak mean they should reduce their demands. Manchester City are owed 15% of any transfer fee over the terms of the deal that took the then teenager to Germany. As a result, they are looking to maximise their profit on the 20-year-old. They write that while 'Sancho remains United's top target, they are prepared to walk away from the deal and pursue other targets'. Furthermore they claim the two clubs remain some distance apart in their valuation of the player. Reports earlier that United have agreed an initial €90 million ($106.6 million) payment also appear wide of the mark. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer remains hopeful the difficulties can be ironed out and a compromise can be found. But ESPN claim United are exploring other possibilities, including Bayern Munich's Kingsley Coman. Fiorentina star Federicho Chiesa has also been mentioned as a possibility. United, however, will first try and find a resolution with Dortmund and talks over the deal will continue. Dortmund were reported to have set a August 10 deadline on any potential transfer. However, ESPN reports United will not be held to ransom over that date and will actively pursue him thereafter should hopes over a deal remain. That's not the end of the problems for United either. It was previously reported that Sancho had agreed a package worth £220 000 ($288 739) a week. However, Solskjaer and Woodward are keen not to break there harmony that exists in their squad. ESPN writes that such a huge pay packet for the Sancho could risk the positive atmosphere Solskjaer has nurtured in the dressing room. Furthermore, they do not want to break the wage structure and wants the club to be "disciplined" in terms of player salaries going forward. Sancho has two years remaining on his deal at Dortmund. He is, however, thought to be keen on the move back to Manchester. All parties will continue talks in the hope of finding a compromise. --News24--