It was their fourth final win in seven years after the north-London outfit last won it in 2017 - winning it then a record 13 times - against the Blues by the same scoreline under the guidance of then-manager Arsene Wenger. This time around, Mikel Arteta, who is only eight months into the job after the Gunners axed Unai Emery, could not have asked for a better way to end the campaign. He is the first to win the prestigious trophy as both the captain of Arsenal (in 2016/17) and now as manager of the club. The Spaniard is also the first Gunners manager to win a major trophy in their first season since George Graham in 1986/87. However, this is all thanks to star forward and club captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who netted a winning brace against Frank Lampard's side over the weekend. In doing so, the Gabon striker became the first African to captain a side in an FA Cup final and went a step further, by winning it with the club armband. In 1965 - 55 years ago - South African winger Albert Johanneson, nicknamed "Hurry Hurry" was the first black African to feature in an FA Cup final as he donned the colours of Leeds United. It is fitting for a black player to lift the trophy in a year where serious steps have been taken by the English FA to tackle racism in the UK by fully backing the Black Lives Matter movement. Aubameyang's rise since his arrival in January 2018 for a then-club record fee of £56 million mirrored his time at Borussia Dortmund, where he was constantly among the top scorers in the league. This season, the striker has netted 29 goals in 44 appearances, completing a fifth campaign with a goal tally beyond 25 goals - a feat that many other clubs are recognising around the world, particularly in Spain. 'Auba' key to Arteta's Arsenal puzzle With just a few months left on his current contract, Arsenal will be praying that the striker puts pen to paper on a new deal. But holding on to the forward won't be easy. Barcelona have been admirers of Aubameyang for the past 16 months as the Catalans look to rejuvenate their strike force. Arteta, however, is confident that the 31-year-old will commit to the Gunners and will be leading their attack when the new season kicks off on Saturday, 12 September. The Spanish mentor has overseen tremendous change at Arsenal despite only being in charge since mid-December 2019. Arsenal look potent in front of goal with Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette while Nicolas Pepe, teenage duo Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli have shown glimpses of what they could offer when given the chance. If Aubameyang signs, it would allow Arteta to continue to build the team around the striker with a few fresh faces coming into the club while also offloading players that have not performed well in Gunners' colours. The Gunners defence, in particular, needs serious attention while their goalkeeping department seems to be strong enough with Emiliano Martinez showcasing why he could easily fill the void if Bernd Leno needs a rest or is sideline through injury. The Arsenal board, notoriously known for not spending a lot of money on signings, will need to back Arteta in the transfer window not only because of the manager's wishes, but it will be pivotal to keeping Aubameyang in London for the foreseeable future. It would be an opportunity missed if Arsenal did not bring in any players before the transfer window shuts in early October and it could even be worse if their star player jumps ship because he does not see the club improving the overall quality of the squad. --NEWS24--