A number of players, including Thami Tsolekile and Gulam Bodi, were heavily implicated in fixing related to the 2015 RAM SLAM domestic T20 competition and banned after an investigation. Bodi was identified as the mastermind behind the operation while other players including Jean Symes, Ethy Mbhalati and Pumelela Matshikwe were also banned. This week, in an interview with Robert Marawa on Marawa Sports Worldwide, Tsolekile brought the case into the spotlight once more by suggesting that certain white players had escaped investigation despite also being involved in the scandal. According to Tsolekile, who was given a 12-year ban, Vaughn van Jaarsveld and Robbie Frylinck had also been approached by Bodi in 2015 without reporting it to authorities. "For the last five years, my financial earnings have been cut. Vaughn, for the last five years, has been earning a salary," Tsolekile said on Marawa's show. "Frylinck was also involved in this. He did a game in the Champions League Twenty20, according to Bodi. But Frylinck, as an ex-Proteas player, he is still playing and I am not." On Friday morning, CSA released a statement defending the integrity of its investigation into the scandal. "Cricket South Africa (CSA) has noted with concern some of the unfounded allegations in the media by certain of the players banned for their part in the match fixing scandal arising from the 2015 Ram Slam competition.” the statement read. “Contrary to the allegation that SACA (South African Cricketers' Association) carried out the investigation, the investigation was carried out by CSA’s Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU) under the guidance and authority of retired Judge Bernard Ngoepe, former Judge President of North Gauteng and South Gauteng.” “On the allegation made by Tsolekile that he was not presented with any evidence and did not receive any charges, Judge Ngoepe said: 'This is not the truth. Tsolekile received a formal charge sheet as is required under the Code. He was also presented with extensive evidence in the presence of his lawyer.' As regards the accusations relating to alleged discrimination, Judge Ngoepe said: 'The allegation that the investigation deliberately targeted black players must also be rejected. Both white and black players were investigated and charged, based on the evidence that was collected and presented.'” added CSA. --News24--