The notice further stated that this meant no creditors' meeting had to take place on July 30 and the practitioners indicated that they were currently finalising remaining outstanding administrative issues before filing a notice of substantial implementation of the rescue process as required by the Companies Act. Yet, there has been no indication from the rescue practitioners, the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) or National Treasury since then that the necessary funding to implement the rescue plan has been obtained or "mobilised" as committed to by the DPE and Treasury in a letter, which was part of the conditions of the rescue plan. The letter did not give a deadline for "mobilising" the funds, nor does the rescue plan itself seem to indicate a further deadline to determine by when such funding has to be "mobilised". In essence, that, therefore, means SAA's business rescue process is in limbo for the moment. It also raises the question of how long the rescue practitioners plan to give government the leeway to come up with the funding; how long can be deemed reasonable, and when could one start raising the question of whether the practitioners are acting responsibly in terms of the legal process required for business rescue. Already, in a section 189 retrenchment notice issued to SAA employees more than two weeks ago on July 18, and seen by Fin24, the practitioners warn that, if a change at SAA does not take place without delay, there is a real risk of the company failing completely and being placed into liquidation. In the event of liquidation, all employees would lose their jobs. The rescue plan requires about R10.3 billion ($594.3 million) in additional funding to implement the rescue plan, but it is not clear where this will come from, and so far government has only committed to "mobilising" funds. The most crucial amount to start off with would be about R800 million ($46.1 million) for post-commencement creditors, about R2.2 billion ($126.8 million) for voluntary severance and retrenchment packages as well as about R2 billion ($115.3 million) for working capital. The rescue practitioners make it clear in their section 189 letter to employees that SAA, as it currently operates, is not financially and economically viable and the business requires a drastic change to save costs, increase efficiencies and thereby allow the company to operate on a sound business basis. The letter further states that, with the exception of the flight deck crew (namely pilots) employees will be selected for positions within the new structure on the basis of longest service, subject to skills, qualifications and experience in respect of the job categories indicated and taking into account employment equity objectives. Of the current 4 661 jobs, 1 000 will exist in the restructured organisation either on different terms and conditions to those currently existing, or as new jobs created by the restructuring which do not currently exist. The letter makes it clear that the success of the proposed restructuring plan is dependent on the availability of funding to support the plan. If the proposed restructure is implemented, it is anticipated that 1 000 employees will be retained and 1 000 will be placed in a temporary training lay-off scheme for 12 months. Voluntary retrenchments are provided for in terms of the plan too, if the necessary funding becomes available. It is estimated that likely 21 management positions, 449 pilots, 953 cabin crew and 1 296 ground staff might be retrenched. The letter proposes applying last in first out subject to skills, qualifications, and experience in respect of the job categories indicated. In addition, to properly address historic imbalances connected to certain collective agreements which entrench benefits associated with seniority, the company proposes to evaluate such outcomes having regard to an employment equity override which ensures equitable representation by black, female and disabled employees. The consultation process will end on September 16, 2020, but since the company is currently faced with significant cash flow and funding challenges, the practitioners propose that an attempt is made to finalise consultations by August 16. --News24--