This contrasts sharply with Finance and Economic Development Minister Mthuli Ncube’s projection that the economy would expand by 3 % on account of improved agriculture output due to better rains, improved power supply, strong mining performance and a cocktail of incentives to drive production in manufacturing. The global lender, which estimates the economy to have contracted by as much as 8.3 % last year, had initially, early last year, projected that the domestic economy would expand by 3.8 % before issuing revised growth forecast of 2.7 % late last year. The IMF said Zimbabwe had taken long to progress on re-engagement, undertake reforms necessary to clear arrears with multilateral lenders to regain access to external lending, which the Bretton Woods institutions says presents challenges in the conduct of monetary policy to contain inflation and stabilise the economy. At a time, the Southern African country remained trapped in the throes of the asphyxiating debt trap, the IMF cautioned against continued recourse to collateralised external borrowing on commercial terms as this may complicate any future arrears clearance operation. It said Zimbabwe appeared headed in the right direction to macro-economic stability following reforms by the new dispensation, supported by an IMF Staff Monitored Programme (SMP). However, the lender says, the reforms have been affected by mixed policy implementation. This has also thrown off rail its staff monitored programme, a Zimbabwe economic reform and stabilisation programme supervised by the IMF, whose success would serve as “clean bill of health” approval for Zimbabwe to regain external credit, of course, after clearing its arrears with the lenders. In a statement released this week after concluding its latest periodic Article IV Consultations, the executive board of the IMF said Zimbabwe faced a humanitarian and economic crisis while the domestic economy continued to wobble amid slow progress on reforms. The IMF said Zimbabwe’s economy contracted sharply in 2019, a situation amplified by climate shocks that have crippled agriculture and electricity generation; newly introduced currency that has lost significant value; high inflation; and very low international reserves. “The climate shocks have magnified the social impacts of the fiscal retrenchment, leaving more than half of the population food insecure. With another poor harvest expected, growth in 2020 is projected at near zero, with food shortages continuing,” the IMF said. The IMF noted positives on reforms as fiscal consolidation that helped reduce monetary financing of budget deficit, introduction of new domestic currency in February 2019, creation of an interbank forex market, and restructuring of command agriculture financing model to a public-private partnership with commercial banks. --Herald--