While ex-Prime Minister and Military General, Umaro Sissoco Embalo, was declared winner of the presidential election by the electoral commission, the ruling party rejected the results and challenged them in the Supreme Court. Last week, Embalo swore himself in as president, while the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) which enjoys a majority in parliament also installed a rival president and prime minister. Guinea-Bissau’s army was on Monday asked by a block of West African countries to remain neutral in the country’s deepening political struggle. The 15-nation Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) said it “firmly condemned” the latest developments in the country, which it was “following with great concern”. Those developments include the “successive investiture of two heads of state outside of legal and constitutional frameworks and the co-existence of two prime ministers,” ECOWAS said in a statement. Since Friday, the army has moved into several of the country’s institutions, including ministries and the national assembly, as well as taking control of local radio and television stations. It is not known whether the army has chosen a side in the political tussle. ECOWAS said it had noted with “great concern the interference of the defence and security forces in the political sphere, and urges them to stay out of the political arena and observe a position of absolute neutrality”. Guinea’s Speaker, Cipriano Cassama, who had been elected by parliament as President resigned from office on Sunday, citing the risk of civil war and danger for his family. “I have no security… My life is in danger, the life of my family is in danger, the life of this people is in danger. I cannot accept that, that is why I took this decision,” Cassamá told reporters. “I decided to take this decision to avoid confrontation between the forces on the other side and the forces that guard me, and also to avoid a … civil war.’‘ Despite not being in the December ballot, Cassamá was appointed by parliament, the majority of whose lawmakers have refused to acknowledge Embalo’s victory. Guinea-Bissau still has two rival Prime Ministers. --Africanews--