The bus was travelling on a gravel road near the Tafalofefe Hospital on Monday morning around 08:00 when it overturned, said RTMC Spokesperson, Simon Zwane. "The Marcopolo bus was travelling from Chebe, picking passengers at locations along the road to Butterworth," he said. While the exact cause of the crash was not known, Zwane said the driver reportedly lost control of the bus in the bushes down a steep area. The country’s Transport Minister, Fikile Mbalula, says the accident was most probably partly caused by overloading. "It is not business as usual for me. I want to know what happened. The numbers tell you that this is a result of overload," Mbalula said. “We remain committed to strengthening our measures aimed at ensuring safety of our people on the roads. 

"This includes regular reviews of procedures to ensure vehicle fitness, ensuring that drivers are fit to drive public transport vehicles. We will also continue to ensure that the conditions of our roads, including gravel roads are maintained in a manner that ensures they are safe to drive on." Mbalula said. First responders reported spotting at least 10 bodies which appeared to have been thrown from the bus when it rolled. The first passenger to be airlifted to East London was a critically injured three-year-old boy, who later died in hospital. President Cyril Ramaphosa has lamented the horror crash, which claimed lives of mostly pensioners and pupils. Ramaphosa has directed Mbalula and the Eastern Cape provincial government to reach out to affected families and provide the necessary assistance as well as to establish what led to the incident. He offered condolences to the families of the dead and wished the 61 survivors a speedy recovery. "This is a sad day for the people of the Eastern Cape and our nation at large. This tragedy leaves our country deeply saddened and forces us to focus yet again on the need for transport providers and other road users to exercise care and consideration on our roads. 

"Safer roads begin with safer attitudes and behaviour. This tragedy is, sadly, yet another wake-up call to all of us to ensure that we arrive alive and those who are entrusted to our care arrive alive," the President said. --News24--