More than 14 700 people have died due to Covid-19 and more than 340 000 cases have been reported globally. Nadal’s native Spain went into lockdown last week in an attempt to slow down the spread of the virus and people are only allowed to leave their homes to go to work, visit a doctor or buy essentials. The world No 2 took to social media to not only thank those on the frontline, but also encourage all those who have been affected. “First of all, I just wanted to apologise because I was out of social media for some time, but these are very difficult times for everyone. This whole situation is overwhelming us and we are all committed in the best possible way from our homes,” he said. “I wanted to send a message of thanks to all the doctors, nurses and all the health personnel who are all protecting us, and to the police forces, civil and national guard, the army, and all those who make us feel a little safer, who are in the first line of fire. After all, they are those who are most at risk of catching (the virus) and they are our heroes. I want to express my admiration and thank you all. “Finally, I want to send encouragement to all the families who are suffering, both the infected, and especially those with relatives or friends who have died from the coronavirus. Send them a message of encouragement. It is difficult to say something in these difficult times, and I can only say in this case that we all feel very sorry, that we trust that at this moment we can go ahead with our lives as soon as possible. “There are also positive things in these difficult times. We are demonstrating to be a united people, many companies are being supportive and contributing, and all citizens are showing ourselves united day after day, complying with all the standards that health (departments) advises us: stay at home, follow all the indications to end this terrible pandemic as soon as possible.”
--news24-- Quería compartir con todos vosotros un mensaje de apoyo en estos momentos tan difíciles en todo el mundo. #YoMeQuedoEnCasa #tuttoandràbene #JeResteALaMaison #StayAtHome #WeWillWinTogether #ánimo pic.twitter.com/RuqZRjwp3W