Health and Child Care Minister Dr Obadiah Moyo yesterday said following the confirmation of South Africa’s first case, Zimbabwe would also intensify efforts but hoped South African authorities would be able to track down all those who had been in contact with the infected person. The South African patient is a 38-year-old man who had travelled to Italy with his wife. Sub-Saharan Africa’s other confirmed case, an Italian living in Nigeria, was also infected in Italy. The other two African cases were confirmed in Algeria and Egypt. The South African couple, which has two children, was with a group of 10 people in Italy. South Africa’s Health Ministry yesterday said the patient consulted a private general practitioner on March 3 with symptoms of fever, headache, malaise, a sore throat and a cough. A nurse took swabs and delivered the samples to the laboratory. The patient had been staying at home in self-quarantine since Tuesday and already South Africa’s Emergency Operating Centre has identified the man’s potential contacts by interviewing the patient and doctor, who is now also living in isolation. The confirmed first coronavirus case in South Africa has raised awareness in Zimbabwe of the need to follow precautions laid down by medical authorities and, as the minister announced, ensure people take border checks seriously. Commenting on the confirmed case in South Africa, Dr Moyo said Zimbabwe needed to be better prepared than ever before. He said as part of efforts to strengthen Zimbabwe and the global fight against Covid-19, Government would continue adhering to and upholding World Health Organisation (WHO) regulations, guidelines and advisories on travel requirements. “As such, all travellers and visitors into the country, including those from countries with confirmed Covid-19 cases, will be screened at ports of entry into Zimbabwe. Government added that no additional requirements on travellers, visitors and airlines outside those already provided for under World Health Organisation regulations, guidelines and advisories were needed.

--Herald--