To many, the Fed’s dramatic actions brought home the severity of the situation the United States (US) finds itself in as it is confronted by an accelerating epidemic that threatens to tip the world’s biggest economy into recession. Others said that with financial markets in turmoil and the economy slowing, the virus’ broadening impact on activity cannot be solved by monetary policy alone. “This is an indication that the central bank is very scared about the environment we’re in,” said Michael O’Rourke, Chief Market Strategist at JonesTrading in Stamford, Connecticut. “The policy response is so strong; it’s likely to spook investors.” Stock futures plunged to their daily limit on Sunday evening after the announcement, in which the Fed said it would cut interest rates to near zero and restart bond buying. Some market watchers said the Fed’s actions were reminiscent of its efforts to help the economy emerge from the financial crisis more than a decade ago, a worrying comparison to many investors. “Markets see Fed replay of 2007-8-9 and are assuming a repeat of the financial crisis is at hand,” said David Kotok, Chief Investment Officer at Cumberland Advisors. The Fed acted to mitigate the economic fallout as governments around the world sought to stem the spread of the virus that has infected over 156 000 people globally and killed more than 5 800. France and Spain joined Italy in imposing lockdowns on tens of millions of people, while the United States saw school closings, runs on grocery stores, shuttered restaurants and retailers, and ends to sports events. Some investors said the Fed was taking important steps even if taming markets in this situation was beyond its control. “This is the Fed’s ‘whatever it takes’ moment,” said Karl Schamotta, Chief Market Strategist at Cambridge Global Payments in Toronto. “A rally looks increasingly possible, particularly if political leaders follow through on building support for fiscal stimulus measures.” Perhaps one of the most important factors for asset prices, investors said, is how difficult it is to bring the virus under control, with the top US infectious disease expert warning that the worst was yet ahead. “What we need to see additionally is the trajectory of the virus,” said Phil Orlando, Chief Equity Market Strategist at Federated Hermes in New York. “We’re getting the Washington policy response but we have to see we’re making progress on combating this virus.” --Reuters--