Former Manchester United defender Patrice Evra launched a scathing attack on the club’s hierarchy as he slammed them for the way they conduct their transfer business. The Frenchman took to his Instagram page in a 20-minute video to voice his sadness after Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side lost their opening game of the season against Crystal Palace on Saturday. The 3-1 defeat further highlighted United’s need to bring in more signings before the window closes on October 5 but the board have struggled to agree a deal for number one target Jadon Sancho and have started the season with just one new signing in the form of midfielder Donny van de Beek. The former left-back took aim at transfer negotiator Matt Judge and also accused executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward of being too trusting. “My phone is ringing from a top director from a top club and they’re saying, 'Patrice, can you ask Matt Judge to answer his phone?' People have to understand we send lawyers to talk with the player. They talk about numbers, not people from the football world,” Evra began. “When you want a player who cost 20 million, he ends up costing 100 million... but even those players, they don’t even want our money anymore. “Before us, Bobby Charlton, George Best, all those people, they made the history of the club. That’s what we try to respect - [winning the Champions League] in 99, and us in 08 - and some people want to blow up all this legacy for what? For which reasons? We are better than that.” Fans have been critical of Woodward on social media and he was subject to an awful attack on his home last year from disgruntled supporters. But Evra stopped short of lambasting the club chief. “If I have a problem with Ed Woodward I will not put it on social media, I will text him and call him and tell him face to face what I think about something. We blame him a lot. The only problem I would say with Ed is trusting people he should never trust,” Evra said. “He even trusts some people outside the club. People like [Managing Director] Richard Arnold are why we’ve got money, these guys can make some sponsorship deal like you can’t imagine, so we’ve got the money, but we’ve not got the players because we send the wrong people to speak with them. “Ole now tries to approach the players and try and speak to them like [Sir Alex] Ferguson used to do.” The club are continuing to work on deals ahead of the October 5 deadline but with Borussia Dortmund standing firm on their stance on Jadon Sancho, it is looking increasingly likely Solskjaer will have to settle for a back-up option. And while Evra was upset about the club’s current situation he explained he was speaking from the heart. “Some people work for this club and they are damaging this club, that’s why we have to tell the truth to the fans,” he said. “I know some people are scared to speak up about because they may not get a job in the future. But I don't care, I don't need Manchester United. I love Manchester United.”
--GOAL--