The loan will be divided between the Cardiff Blues, Scarlets, Dragons and Ospreys with the sides responsible for repayment over a five-year period. "I am delighted the loan has now come through," said Phillips. "It has been a long road, probably longer than I thought, but the point is we have got there." The WRU has an annual turnover of £90 million ($116 million), more than half of which is generated by international matches. Most home fixtures have not been held in 2020 because of coronavirus. It is understood a projected £26 million ($33.6 million) was allocated for the four sides for the 2020-21 season pre COVID-19, but that has fallen to less than £4 million ($5.1 million). The WRU has agreed a coronavirus large business interruption loan scheme with the NatWest bank, with the government-backed deal featuring a five-year negotiated repayment period. "We are now credit-approved by NatWest so the loan is now being delivered subject to documentation which I reckon is going to take 10-14 days," said Phillips. "That is now in the hands of our lawyers and NatWest who we must thank. "In all fairness to NatWest and others, it's a big ask on top of our existing facilities. They recognise where we are, I think they trust us, they would not lend us £20 million ($25.9 million) if they didn't. "The rates are dictated by NatWest and or government and we have ended up with a sensible rate. So we have ended up in a place I am pleased with." The four Welsh regions, who have been discussing how the $25.9 million) will be distributed. "I will be in touch with our regional colleagues to see how that will operate and when funds will flow," said Phillips. "The Professional Rugby Board are consulted, but it is a direct relationship between the WRU and the regions because that is how banking works. "NatWest lends to the WRU who onward lend to the four regions is how it works. "The money is divided by consensus within the four regions to satisfy the individual needs. "They have worked collectively and ended up with a split they are comfortable with between themselves. I am not going to tell you the share, but the four chairmen have been able to sit down and come to a conclusion on how the £20m was best to serve Welsh rugby." Steve Phillips was heavily involved in the loan negotiations in his previous role as WRU finance director. This deal has been agreed in the first week of Phillips' reign as interim Chief Executive, replacing Martyn Phillips. --BBC--