This as Telkom on Friday overtook troubled Cell C to become South Africa’s third-largest operator. Cell C has faced several headwinds and has embarked on a recapitalisation programme to improve the company’s capital structure and to tackle its $820 million debt burden. Andre Ittman, the company’s Chief Operations Officer, said on yesterday said the company had to adapt to the consumption patterns that have resulted from remote working and the challenges that could be presented from a network access perspective. “We will offer customers quality network access, champion innovative service offerings and drive digital inclusion by leveraging collaborations and partnerships,” said Ittman. Cell C said the “new normal” economy required that it supported business continuity by ensuring service availability at all costs, so not to let their customers down. This included connectivity assistance to companies that have adopted work-from-home policies, by helping them to find alternative means for connectivity, systems and laptops. Ittman said Cell SA also had to support their operational partners’ critical sustainability while also showing commitment to their vendors. Cell C said collaboration with the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa on the spectrum auction and benefits that could be realised as a result of that would also be key for the mobile network operator. There were no significant changes to its plans and programmes as communicated prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, Cell C said. However, the current model of company-owned stores had been reviewed and would result in a reduction in the number of stores, mainly as a result of the decline in foot traffic and the number of transactions that were being replaced by increased digital or e-commerce volumes. Cell C said it would continue with its planned strategy and operational model whereby it would become a significant wholesale buyer of network capacity and infrastructure services, replacing the current model of buy and build. --IOL--