To date, an investment of E341 million ($20.1 million) has been made towards implementation of the project which has been hugely anticipated to generate massive economic impact that could culminate in increased Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for both countries. Eswatini Railways Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Nixon Dlamini, disclosed that the cash injection of $20.1 million) had been pumped towards concept, pre-feasibility study and designs, among other costs, by both South Africa and Eswatini. “We are working around the clock to ensure that the project comes into fruition through the finalisation of preliminary issues which include resettlement to give way for the rail project, among other things,” said Dlamini shortly after a meeting between Eswatini Railways and Transnet Freight Rail convened at Royal Villas yesterday. Dlamini also mentioned that 245 homesteads would be relocated from Sicunusa to Sidvokodvo along the Usuthu River to give way for the development. “We are yet to finalise discussions with some of the affected parties that may be relocated. No payments as yet have been made to the families that may be resettled except for only four land parcels where we reached agreements with those affected,” Dlamini explained. Transnet Freight Rail CEO, Sizakele Mzimela, briefed the Minister of Public Works and Transport Chief, Ndlaluhlaza Ndwandwe, that there was now a clear pathway that would be followed to ensure that the project eventually sees the light of day. “The teams have been aligned to focus on the major issues that need to be addressed to allow for the project to go ahead seamlessly,” said Mzimela. The ESRL project is a collaboration between two companies, namely, Eswatini Railways (from Eswatini) and Transnet Freight Rail (from South Africa). Apart from construction of a 150 km new railway line from Lothair in South Africa to Sidvokodvo in Eswatini, the project entails the revamping of two existing lines, the first from Ermelo to Lothair and the other from Sidvokodvo in Eswatini to Richards Bay in South Africa. ESRL project was conceptualised with the aim of relieving Transnet Freight Rail’s export coal line of general freight cargo that runs from the Mpumalanga Province to the Port of Richards Bay. It was explained that the newly constructed and revamped lines will enable Transnet Freight Rail to divert the general freight cargo through Eswatini to the Port of Richards Bay. The diversion will free capacity on the export coal line, therefore, allowing for more coal to be railed to the Richards Bay Coal Terminal. --Observer--