The investigation showed that Standard Bank, one of the country’s leading lending institutions, was probably involved in unscrupulous transactions worth billions of dollars. The report by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) implicated Standard Bank in the shadow dealings that have seen individuals and institutions losing hundreds of thousands of dollars. Standard Bank was not immediately available for comment. The US Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), a government agency operating to detect and prevent financial crimes, said about 173 potentially suspicious transactions had gone through the South African banks. The report was contained in the report by the ICIJ, showing an amount of $482 758 received through the banks and $60.27 million sent out were flagged as potentially suspicious transactions. Overall, the report identified more than $2 trillion of transactions between 1999 and 2017 that were flagged by internal compliance departments of financial institutions as possible money laundering or other criminal activity. The report stated that Standard Bank reported 169 of the 173 transactions that were highlighted in the report. FinCEN said in a statement on its website at the beginning of the month that it was aware that media outlets intended to publish a series of articles based on unlawfully disclosed Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) as well as other documents, and said that the “unauthorised disclosure of SARs is a crime that can impact the national security of the US.” FinCEN is in charge of compiling “suspicious-activity reports” sent to it by banks that suspect financial wrongdoing by their clients and SARs do not constitute evidence of wrongdoing but are a way to alert regulators and law enforcement. The FinCEN files showed that five banks: JPMorgan, Standard Chartered, Deutsche Bank, Barclays and BNY Mellon handled the most illicit funds between 1997 and 2017. However, the banks have sent these files to the US authorities to raise concern about what their clients were doing. --IOL--