With another negative growth looming, the expected fall in the value of goods and services the country produces in 2020 will take Namibia seven years back. Judging by the gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, the national cake is also shrinking compared to the growing population. According to Cirrus Capital's economic outlook released last week, the amount of goods and services to be produced in the country will record the biggest contraction ever. "We estimate an 8.5% contraction for the country's economy in 2020, the deepest in the nation's history," the outlook said. This means the economy will only produce N$131.6 billion ($7.7 billion) worth of goods and services, N$12.2 billion ($722.3 million) less than it did last year when N$143.8 billion ($8.5 billion) worth of goods and services were produced. This will almost be equal to what the country produced in 2013. For the past five years, the economy has never gone beyond the N$145.4 billion ($8.6 billion) mark and is expected to weaken in 2020 as COVID-19 takes its toll on income earning activities. "The deep contraction this year comes after four years of economic stagnation, and cumulatively this put Namibia's economic output back seven years," said Cirrus experts. Against the background of stagnation and reduction in production, a growing population, and an expanding labour force, the government's need to spend rises. Using GDP per capita, which is the overall production per head, it seems the living standard of most Namibians has slumped back to that of 2010. Cirrus researchers project "it will take many years of relatively high, continuous growth to return real GDP per capita to the 2015 high". Scaling down, retrenchments, falling commodity prices and depressed demands both domestically and externally, and supply shocks are warning bells for the economy. According the Cirrus, Namibia's lockdown resulted in an abrupt supply shock, particularly for Windhoek and the Erongo region. The initial lockdown saw many sectors of the economy producing far below optimal levels, and failing to generate revenue to levels they normally would. The impact of the lockdown was exacerbated by the fact that businesses had to use their accumulated savings to cushion them. --TheNamibian--