Feng is the head of the neighbourhood’s residential committee, among thousands tasked in late January with ensuring people in the city of 11 million stayed home to curb the spread of the virus. A legacy of the Mao Zedong era, residential committees are staffed mainly by members of the ruling Communist Party and have been key to supporting epidemic control efforts as they kept locked-in residents fed and supplied, carried out regular disinfection operations, and looked after vulnerable people including the elderly. While the city has reopened shopping malls and allowed companies to resume work, residential committees have been ordered to keep a careful watch on households to help prevent the complete resumption of free movement. Wuhan was the epicentre of China’s epidemic, and was where the outbreak first occurred. Haunted by what the city endured during the past few months, people have an abiding fear of a second wave of contagion, although new cases have slowed to a trickle in recent weeks. But, the prolonged vigilance and control over movement has also raised questions over how long the watch over people’s lives could last and whether the city will truly return to normal. “We still don’t let residents go out, only those who have resumed work can go out if they have a green health code,” Feng, who runs a team of 14 community workers, told reporters last week during a government-arranged tour. At that time, Tanhualin had been free of infections for 45 days. In all, the neighbourhood had counted 26 cases of the virus during the epidemic, the first one was identified in January. Asked if her committee had relaxed its management since the lockdown ended, Feng was categoric in her response. “Not at all!”, she said. “Our residents are extremely united, extremely hardworking and are fighting side by side with us. They listen to all our arrangements.”

Rising worries about asymptomatic cases and the possibility of a second wave of infections mean that the residential committees may maintain their vigilance for a while longer.

--Reuters--