In order to assess the impact of the pandemic on the manufacturing sector, CZI is carrying out a weekly snap survey of the local industry with the latest survey having been conducted between March 25 and March 30, 2020. According to the study, which got responses from firms in the insurance, food, beverages, tobacco, chemical, footwear, metal, clothing, printing and publishing sectors, the cost of mitigating the impact of COVID19 as a percentage of the company’s annual expenditure budget was estimated at 14 % on average. The snap survey also revealed that most of the expenses companies are incurring are to do with the purchasing of protective clothing which include, face masks, spraying equipment, disinfectants, hand sanitisers and other protective clothing. As a result of the COVID19 pandemic employees and employers have been greatly affected.
According to the snap survey, 16 % of the surveyed firms stated that they have sent employees on unpaid leave while some have been forced to shut down and cannot afford to pay salaries “which is detrimental to the employees’ welfare since the majority live on hand to mouth”. “This will affect the welfare of the employees with downstream effects on education, health and distribution services. “Aggregate demand will be negatively affected by loss of income for the employees, which affect industry operations and ultimately economic growth and development. This development has production and welfare effects on employers and employees, and the economy as a whole,” reads part of the survey. Meanwhile, the snap survey also revealed that production and trading volumes declined by 36 % on average mainly as a result of reduced workforce, temporary closure of the firms and disrupted supply chains. Supply chains have been disrupted by this global pandemic, as countries are closing their borders and going into national lockdowns in a bid to try and contain the COVID19 pandemic which has resulted in more than 10 0000 deaths globally. “The local industry was not spared as the snap survey results showed that 81 % of the surveyed firms experienced supply chain disruptions. “This has affected raw materials supply which is needed to keep industry rolling.” The South African lockdown has had major impact in terms of raw material supply but in general firms are failing to access both source and export markets. At least 28 % of the surveyed firms said there are “greatly affected” in terms of access to both source and export markets. --Herald--