Sindika Dokolo said if people do not trust his version of events, they should just ask the renowned global accounting firm, PriceWaterHouseCoopers (PwC), which handled the couple's accounting and gave them tax advice. "We've been working with only Triple-A partners, including our auditors and our auditors, in this case, are PwC," said Dokolo in a recent studio interview with VOA in Washington. Isabel dos Santos, the daughter of former Angolan President, Jose Eduardo dos Santos, similarly maintains her innocence, saying she ran businesses that operated on the world stage and abided by the highest standards. "When you are a child of the president, you can't hide. The lights are just too bright. You have a lot of attention, a lot of scrutiny. So I took the decision to be transparent," she said. But PwC and other firms are now distancing themselves from the couple, who have had their assets frozen inside Angola. After the senior dos Santos left power in 2017, his successor, Joao Lourenco, announced a crackdown on corruption. Part of this effort was bringing charges against the dos Santos family, which Angola’s attorney general believes looted more than one billion dollars in state funds. PwC, which according to The New York Times worked with at least 20 of Isabel dos Santos’ companies, has now severed ties with the couple. Bob Moritz, the chairperson of PwC, said he is "personally tremendously shocked" by the allegations of misappropriation of money from Angola. He said the company is launching an internal investigation. "I am thankful now that we are getting out of it now and we are taking the action and we will wait for the investigation to continue and then we will take necessary actions thereafter," Moritz said, speaking to the Associated Press. Another company, United States-based Boston Consulting Group (BCG), helped run de Grisogono, the diamond company that Dokolo and Dos Santos purchased. The couple are accused of using Angolan public funds to finance the purchase and leaving the State with a debt topping $100 million. The New York Times reported that, although BCG’s involvement with de Grisogono lasted only 11 months, BCG employees left to become the Chairperson, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the diamond company. In response to questions about its involvement with the company, BCG stressed that it never worked directly for the dos Santos family. "BCG has never been retained by or worked directly for Isabel dos Santos or her husband at any point in time, and we will not work for them going forward," a spokesperson said in a written statement to VOA. The company is also conducting an internal investigation. "The allegations against Isabel dos Santos are obviously serious and very concerning," said the spokesperson. Another major consulting and accounting firm, McKinsey, also allegedly received payments from dos Santos-owned companies. --VOA--