In a statement yesterday, Acting Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Professor Amon Murwira said boarding schools will be allowed to increase boarding fees and levies, provided 20 percent of parents agree and the proposal is approved by the ministry. This comes barely a week after President Mnangagwa told residents of Kuwadzana, Harare, that Government would not sanction school fees increases for public schools. Disciplinary action will be taken against public schools that charge fees in foreign currency or increase tuition fees. Prof Murwira said the Government had no control over boarding fees and levies as they were open to market forces. “The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education would like to confirm that there will be no tuition fee increases in public schools. Provincial education directors, district schools inspectors and heads of public schools should stand guided by the circular to the same effect which has been dispatched to them. Anyone found transgressing this directive will face disciplinary action. “Government has also learnt that some private schools are charging directly or indirectly in forex. Responsible authorities of such schools are warned that they risk de-registration of such schools,” he said. “Boarding fees and food fees are subject to market forces, therefore, that one will be charged reasonably. They have been given guidelines on how to proceed with boarding fees.” The announcement followed concerns that some schools were increasing fees so they could cater for textbooks, but Murwira said the ministry had a budget of $8 billion to cater for that. “Government is investing a lot to move towards free basic education as per Constitution. This is why the ministry is given such a budget. “It is important to note that public schools are not funded from tuition fees, but they are also funded from the taxpayers’ money and from Treasury allocation. When we do not allow increases, if there is a gap there is a way we are going to fill it as a ministry,” he said. Murwira said the Government was doing everything to ensure Zimbabweans had access to education, adding that the highest vote in the National Budget was for education. “Boarding fees involves groceries. The ministry does not own a shop and therefore schools are subjected to expenses that occur on the market. This is why there has to be a meeting among the parents which determines the level of boarding fees. “Government is in control of the tuition fees because that is the service we give,” he said. On free basic education, Murwira said the facility depended on the availability of resources. --Herald--