The Coca-Cola Company holds a majority stake in CCBA, which is the largest bottler of Coca-Cola beverages in Africa, serving 13 countries on the continent and eighth largest in the world by revenue. Standard Bank, Africa’s largest bank by assets, “started its journey with CCBA a few years back and, as the relationship developed, has established itself as a primary banker to CCBA across key Africa geographies in which it operates”. “We have demonstrated the importance of our partnership with CCBA by offering unique solutions to key concerns, of which this transaction is a prime example,” says Simon Reeves, Standard Bank’s Relationship Manager for CCBA. “This closely aligns with our key business imperative of driving sustainable growth across the continent,” says Stephen Lovell, Head, Corporate Financing Solutions, Africa Regions for Standard Bank”. “Standard Bank’s position as sole funder to the deal demonstrates the bank’s ability to provide innovative financing solutions, leverage the strength of its balance sheet and Africa expertise to bring deals like this to life.” With a presence in markets that match CCBA’s operations in Africa and having established a representative office in Addis Ababa in 2015, Standard Bank was able to provide insight into the local market that best supported CCBA’s growth ambitions in Ethiopia, a high growth region for Coca-Cola. Ethiopia boasts the second-largest population on the African continent. While consumption of soft drinks is low compared to major markets, demand is expected to swell as the middle class rises and consumers are empowered with spend. The bottling company, East Africa Bottling S.C, has already invested $70 million in a new plant that is set to become its largest in Ethiopia with a manufacturing capability of 70 000 cases per day. Research by Fitch Solutions shows that the global soft drinks industry is worth $295 billion and is expected to grow to $377 billion by 2023. Africa only accounts for 3% of this total value, despite representing 16% of the global population, which is expected to rise 25% by 2050. --IOL--