They express optimism that 2020 will be the year when they will gather the momentum needed to accomplish what they were unable to accomplish in 2019, and even earlier. According to reports, early last year, oil and gas multinationals restarted negotiations with the government on the Host Government Agreement (HGA) that had stalled since 2017 due to technicalities. This is because the international oil companies (IOCs) could not agree on modalities altogether, and consequently, the negotiations had to be halted. Then it was collectively agreed that they do the negotiating separately. After the delay, negotiations started in April last year. But they yet again encountered a hitch that caused them to be shelved once more. This was if only because the Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs) arrangements are currently being reviewed by the government. Reports have it that the government is seeking to scrap sections in the PSAs that it see are tilted against the country, thereby denying it revenues and other benefits. The Attorney General is in talks with the investors to review outlined areas that need to be changed in order to come up with a win-win situation. The Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) Managing Director, James Mataragio, said negotiations on HGA key terms are still awaiting the PSA review. However, he said they expect to resume negotiations and other issues, including on land on which the proposed Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is to be located. “As soon as the pending issues are finalised, we expect to resume negotiations,” he said. In August 2019 before the PSA issue had arisen, Mataragio was optimistic that the negotiations would be completed last September and they would move to another level, like the Preparation for Front End Engineering Design (pre-FEED). He had said the HGA negotiations were on schedule and the next stage would be the pre-FEED. The pre-FEED includes all that would be involved in the construction of the LNG project. --Citizen--