He urged this while addressing a World Economic Forum (WEF) panel discussion in Davos, Switzerland on Wednesday. 

Pityana, who has been named Co-chairperson of the WEF's new Africa Regional Stewardship Board, said Africa had great potential, not only to become a global growth frontier, but to attract investment that would lead to meaningful development and growth. Africa has a large population of young people and some of the fastest-growing economies of the world, but it faces headwinds including inequality and a lack of infrastructure. Pityana argued that Africa could learn a number of lessons from Asia, noting the growth of China's middle class. He argued that a continent that moved as one when drawing investment and developing infrastructure would fare better than one that was fragmented. "We need to think continentally, whether we think trade and investment or infrastructure. The major challenge for the continent is the seriousness with which it takes its borders. They are too hard and need to be softened," he said. In this respect, Pityana said initiatives such as the Africa Free Trade Agreement were positive steps. "The developmental deficit in the continent is an opportunity to attract investment, so long as you can ensure a stable policy and regulatory environment. We need to unleash the potential to drive growth and attract that investment. "Someone once said mosquitoes know no borders. We need to think about that when we invest in infrastructure in the African continent," Pityana said. He said education, policy certainty and a conducive regulatory environment were non-negotiable when it came to seeking out investment. He warned African states that the African "youth dividend" ran the real risk of being "overrated". "We need to take cognisance of the fact that we are starting from a low base. If we share that infrastructure, we can allow empowerment of the youth ourselves as well as drive and encourage innovation among the African youth ourselves," he said. --Fin24--