Leishman and Smith, who just played Down Under in December in the Presidents Cup at Melbourne, will donate money for their every birdie and eagle this week at Honolulu's Wai'alae Country Club, a pledge matched by other Aussies as well. "The devastation caused in the unprecedented national crisis in Australia is just terrible," Leishman said. "There have been lives lost and around 2000 families have lost homes, not to mention the catastrophic damage to the unique wildlife in the country. The communities across the nation have shown tremendous spirit in the face of such adversity and it's the least we can do to try to help out." Australian Open winner Matt Jones and fellow Aussies Cameron Davis, Cameron Percy and Rhein Gibson also joined in launching the fundraising initiative at the year's first full-field US PGA tournament. "Hard to believe what is happening down under," Gibson tweeted. "Happy to help where I can. Let's get around this and help as much as we can. From lives and houses lost to our beautiful flora and fauna it's absolutely devastating." The PGA Tour and Presidents Cup will match funds raised by any player this week up to $125 000. "It's heartwarming and comes as no surprise to see our players lend their support for the current crisis," Presidents Cup Executive Director, Matt Kamienski, said. "Our thoughts are with those who have experienced a loss during this time and we thank those who continually raise their hand to fight these bush fires." More than 7.3 million hectares have been burned across Australia with multiple fires still blazing. Thousands of homes have been destroyed with at least 24 people dead and half a billion animals impacted. "This is a global crisis and a cause close to my heart," Leishman said. Leishman, who plays alongside Joaquin Niemann and Lanto Griffin in Thursday and Friday's opening rounds, will donate $500 a birdie and $1 000 per eagle to the relief effort with supporters boosting that total to over $800 a birdie and $2 000 for an eagle. Leishman's foundation will match general donations up to $5 000.  

--News24--