Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, John Roberts, administered the oath to the senators to "do impartial justice". In the coming weeks, the senators will decide whether Trump should be removed from office over charges brought by the House of Representatives. The trial is scheduled to begin on January 21. Justice Roberts asked the senators, "Do you solemnly swear that in all things appertaining to the trial of the impeachment of Donald John Trump, President of the US, now pending, you will do impartial justice according to the Constitution and the laws, so help you God?" The lawmakers responded with "I do" before each signing in a book that they took the oath. Republican Senate Leader, Mitch McConnell, then adjourned the pre-trial proceedings and announced the trial would begin at 13:00 EST (18:00 GMT) on Tuesday. Trump is accused of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. He has denied wrongdoing and branded the case against him as a "hoax". Chuck Schumer, the Democratic Leader in the senate, again called for new witnesses and documents to be permitted in the trial. "The gravity of these charges is self-evident. The House of Representatives have accused the president of trying to shake down a foreign leader for personal gain," Schumer said. In the lead-up to the trial, senior Democrats heavily criticised McConnell after he pledged to work in "total co-ordination" with the president, seemingly abrogating the sworn duty of Republican senators to act as impartial jurors. Speaking after Thursday's proceedings, Schumer told reporters: "McConnell said he's going to take his cues from the president. We are taking our cues from nobody." McConnell has not ruled out witnesses. He suggested the format would mimic the impeachment trial of President Bill Clinton in 1999, during which senators voted on which witnesses to call following opening arguments and a written question period. As things wrapped up on Capitol Hill on Thursday, Trump told reporters in the White House he thought the trial "should go very quickly. It's a complete hoax," the President said. "A phony hoax put through by the Democrats so they can win an election." He reiterated the sentiment in a tweet, saying he was impeached "for making a perfect phone call". Democrats allege the President withheld $391 million in military aid in order to pressure Ukraine to investigate his political rival, Joe Biden. Trump is the third US President to be impeached. The previous two, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, were not removed from office. A two-thirds majority in the Senate is required to oust a president. As Trump's Republicans control the senate, he is widely expected to be acquitted. His defence team has not been formally announced, but White House Lawyers, Pat Cipollone and Jay Sekulow have been tipped to lead it. --BBC--