World leaders have pledged not to interfere in Libya's ongoing civil conflict, and have vowed to uphold a UN arms embargo. The conflict pits powerful General Khalifa Haftar against the UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA). But although both Libyan warring sides were present, they did not meet. German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the two sides were briefed and consulted by the other parties. Alongside Merkel, attendees included Russia's President Vladimir Putin, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, French President Emmanuel Macron and United Kingdom Prime Minister, Boris Johnson. Before the meeting, Johnson said the aim of the conference was to "stop this jockeying for position. The people of Libya have suffered enough," he said as he arrived on Sunday. "It's time for the country to move forward." Leaders from the European Union, Russia and Turkey were among those who committed to an end to foreign intervention in Libya's war, and to uphold a UN arms embargo. After the conference, German leader Merkel stressed there was no military way to end the conflict, "only a political solution". Guterres meanwhile said all the major powers present shared "a strong commitment to stop" any further escalation in the region. He did however say he was "very worried" about reports that forces loyal to Haftar had closed several key ports and a major oil pipeline in the country. Russian Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, also expressed concerns. He said afterwards the major powers "have not yet succeeded in launching a serious and stable dialogue" between the warring parties. There were questions about whether there could be a lasting ceasefire, and how this could be maintained. Nevertheless, Lavrov said both sides had taken "a small step" forward. The commitment by foreign backers of the conflict, which includes Russia, Egypt and Turkey to respect the UN arms embargo on Libya will only be taken seriously if the UN Security Council acts on violations. This is something it has failed to do in years of conflict. For any progress to be made in the long term, Libya's warring sides will need to declare and commit to a ceasefire, which still looks far-fetched. If there is eventually a long-enough ceasefire in place, it would allow the UN to go back to the political drawing board, and design a fresh political process for the country. Europe is trying to jostle its way back into a complex scene, which it all but abandoned over the past year because of its own divisions over a solution. If nothing else, the Berlin summit may have enabled it to elbow its way back into a position with more leverage over stabilising Libya. --BBC--