Statistics South Africa (StatsSA) reported yesterday that the CPI edged higher to 4% year-on-year in December from a low of 3.6% in November. This was mainly due to a higher fuel price inflation.BThe hike was in line with market expectations. In December, the price of 95 octane unleaded petrol rose by 22 cents a litre, while that of diesel dropped by about 15 cents a litre. In January, petrol dropped 14 cents a litre. But economists expect that inflation would be contained below the midpoint target band of 4.5%, as the year progresses. Investec economist Kamilla Kaplan said inflation would tick up until March, based on last year’s corresponding period. “Fuel price inflation is set to continue to elevate headline CPI inflation in the first quarter of 2020, in view of the low statistical base established in the corresponding period of 2019,” she said. “The other key influence on the CPI outcome in December was the increase in the contribution from food and non-alcoholic beverages.” StatsSA said the average annual consumer price inflation was 4.1% in 2019, the lowest reading since 2005 when the rate was 3.1%. On a monthly basis inflation increased by 0.3%. The recent monthly inflation has been lower than the midpoint of the inflation target range. The Chief Director for price statistics at StatsSA, Patrick Kelly, said inflation started 2019 on 4% in January and hit highs of 4.5% in March, May and June. Kelly said food and non-alcoholic beverage inflation climbed slowly but steadily during the year, reaching 3.9% in December, compared with November’s 3.5% and January’s 3%. “Fuel prices increased by 2.4% over the year, after starting 2019 with deflation of -1.2%,” he said. “Prices of certain public transport services showed very large 12-month increases in December. Car rental fees increased by 14.9% and long distance buses by 20.6%.” Last week, the SA Reserve Bank (SARB) revised lower the medium-term inflation outlook to 4.1% from 4.2% for 2019, compared to the November forecast. The bank said inflation for 2020 would be 4.7%, down from 5.1%. FNB Economist, Matlhodi Matsei, said the December petrol price dynamics resulted in a 2.4% year-on-year rise in the petrol CPI for December, after a fall of 6.6%. “The uptick in the petrol CPI contributed to a higher overall transport CPI, which added 0.5percentage points to headline CPI from zero contribution in November,” she said. “Over the near term, we expect headline CPI to continue drifting below the midpoint of the SARB’s inflation target band of 4.5%, amid the inability to pass on material price increases to the consumer due to constrained consumer-income growth.” Matsei said the inflation trajectory was expected to moderate during the course of the year. “Although we might see some base effects from higher international oil prices during the first few months of 2020, we expect these to dissipate shortly thereafter which means that the overall inflation trajectory will remain contained,” she said. --BusinessReport--