Usually wary of the media limelight, Dos Santos has fired a broadside of scathing tweets, interviews and statements, lashing what she says are lies and a corrupt regime. The 46-year-old has been named "Africa's richest woman" by Forbes magazine, which last year rated her net worth at $2.2 billion. Among Angolans, her nickname is The Princess, denoting the wealth and status she accumulated in the oil-rich state during her father's 38-year rule. On December 23, prosecutors froze the bank accounts and holdings owned by Dos Santos and her Congolese husband Sindika Dokolo. She has denied any wrongdoing, variously calling the accusations "lies," "fake news" and "politically motivated". The investigation centres on alleged use of state-owned companies to siphon off over a billion dollars. It is delving into alleged irregularities involving the national oil giant Sonangol and Sodiam, a national diamond-marketing firm. Dos Santos was appointed head of Angola's national oil company Sonangol in 2016, an act that for many critics exemplified nepotism under her father Jose Eduardo, 77. But she was forced out by his successor, Joao Lourenco, within months of coming to power in 2017. She has since left Angola, claiming she faced death threats after her father stepped down. She now lives in Europe, where she went to school and university. A judicial source told AFP Dos Santos would be formally charged in March, and her assets had been frozen as a "precautionary measure" while investigations were underway. Dos Santos has warned that freezing her assets would impact business she owns in Angola. "My companies employ thousands of employees in Angola, providing well-paid jobs with good benefits," she tweeted. "We provide over 20 000 jobs, and we support over 30 000 small businesses." Dos Santos has holdings in two private banks, including the leading Banco de Formento Angola, the mobile operator Unitel, a supermarket chain and cable television. Those threats were brushed off by government officials, unions and economists. Angolan economic expert Carlos Rosado said that only Dos Santos' "personal bank accounts" had been frozen. "Workers do not directly depend on Isabel dos Santos to pay them wages," Rosado told AFP. He added that most of the companies in which Dos Santos owns stakes would "continue to operate". --News24-- 