The statistics agency said in response to Business Report questions yesterday that the planned revisions were part of a five-year revision cycle, that was internationally recommended. Previously, Stats SA revised Gross Domestic Product (GDP) numbers in 2014, 2009 and 2004, respectively. “It is best practice to benchmark estimates of national accounts every five-years because you need an opportunity to introduce methodological changes and improvements, as well as periodic data sets such as a household. The revised estimates were scheduled to be released in September, with revisions going back to at least the new base year, 2015, but possibly longer, the agency said.

Economists.co.za Chief Economist, Dr Mike Schussler, said in general, the mining and older formal industries were well surveyed statistically in South Africa, but there was scope for improvement, for example, in the services and transport sectors. Additionally, he and a number of other South African economists, and the World Bank, had indicated to Stats SA that the informal sector was much bigger than what the current data showed. Schussler believed better data on the sector could add up to 10-15% onto the GDP. The GDP amounted to R4.9 trillion ($340 billion) in 2018. He said typically, a reweighting of data sets results in minor changes to growth rates, but did not detract from the broader growth trends. GDP figures from the second quarter of 2020 onwards would be calculated using the new reference year and revised weights. The economy has been mired in the longest economic downward cycle since 1945, strained by political and policy instability, poor business and consumer confidence, rising government debt and electricity cuts. GDP growth likely slowed to 0.4% in 2019 from 0.8% in 2018, according to the SA Reserve Bank. National Treasury and the central bank have forecast GDP to expand by 1.2% this year, but international lenders such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund have forecast growth of below 1%. Absa Bank Senior Economist, Miyelani Maluleke, said while the rebasing of GDP data was a regular occurrence, it was difficult to say how it would affect historic data and forecasting. “Our approach is to always wait and see what the new state of national account numbers look like and then I think we’ll recalibrate our models,” he said. The bank forecasts economic growth of 0.9% this year. --BusinessReport--