The Capital Markets Authority (CMA) has been holding numerous meetings with the Kenya National Audit Office (Kenao) in a bid to save the credibility of the country’s disclosure regulations for listed companies and maintain investor confidence. The CMA has also asked the public firms to go ahead and submit the unaudited financial results. Three State companies, Kenya Power, Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) and the East Africa Portland Cement Company (EAPCC) are yet to publish their results for the financial year ending June 30, 2019, which is the time-frame stipulated by law. Kenya Reinsurance Corporation (Kenya Re), which closed its books in December 30, 2019, could face the same fate if the Auditor-General is not in office by March. In the meetings with Kenao, the CMA has been trying to identify a loophole that can be exploited to allow the companies to publish their results. 

The authority has been hoping to find a provision in the law that would allow the results to be signed off without the signature of the Auditor-General. “The meetings did not bear fruit because the law does not allow anyone other than the Auditor-General to sign off the results,” said a source who requested anonymity for lack of authority to speak on the matter. A lengthy process in appointing an auditor-general has been compounded by lack of suitable candidates and court cases. The prolonged delay in publishing the results has sparked doubts over the credibility of disclosure regulations. This is because those with shares in these public companies are in the dark over their annual performance. For shareholders of KenGen, the delay will mean the firm can’t pay dividends. Kenya Power, on its part, had issued a profit warning in September announcing that profits for the year ended June 30 would be down by more than 25 %, ultimately preparing shareholders for another profit dip. The lack of an Auditor-General has also affected non-listed state companies, which often publish their financial results or are obligated to submit audited books of accounts to parliament including the Central Bank of Kenya, National Social Security Fund and Kenya Pipeline Company. --TheEastAfrican--