The ban still prevents Russia from competing in the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, set to be held next year, and football's 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Russia was initially given a four-year ban by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). CAS said the reduction of the ban should not be seen "as any validation" of Russia's conduct. The ban will now run until December 16, 2022, meaning Russia is also banned from competing at the Winter Olympics in Beijing in February. Russia will be allowed to play at 2021's delayed Euro 2020 tournament because European football's governing body Uefa is not defined as a "major event organisation" with regards to rulings on anti-doping breaches. WADA declared Russia's Anti-Doping Agency (Rusada) non-compliant for manipulating laboratory data handed over to investigators in January 2019. Russia had been told to hand over data to WADA as a condition of its controversial reinstatement in 2018 after a three-year suspension for its vast state-sponsored doping scandal. "The panel has imposed consequences to reflect the nature and seriousness of the non-compliance and to ensure that the integrity of sport against the scourge of doping is maintained," said CAS, which announced the ruling on Thursday. "It has considered matters of proportionality and, in particular, the need to effect cultural change and encourage the next generation of Russian athletes to participate in clean international sport." Russia has also been prevented from hosting international events during the same period. When WADA announced its sanction in December 2019, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said the ban was part of "chronic anti-Russian hysteria". Russian athletes who can prove they are untainted by the doping scandal will be able to compete under a neutral flag. They can wear a kit which contains Russian colours, but it cannot bear the Russian flag or any national symbol. If their kit displays the name 'Russia', written in any language, it cannot be more prominent than the words 'neutral athlete' which must be in English. The Russian national anthem cannot be played or sung at any official venue, while flags cannot be displayed either. A total of 168 Russian athletes competed under a neutral flag at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang. Russia has been banned from competing as a nation in athletics since 2015. After the ruling was announced, WADA said it was pleased to have "won this landmark case", adding it was important for "clean sport across the world". "We left no stone unturned in investigating this very complex matter and in presenting our case before CAS," said Wada President, Witold Banka. "The panel has clearly upheld our findings that the Russian authorities brazenly and illegally manipulated the Moscow laboratory data in an effort to cover up an institutionalised doping scheme. "In the face of continual resistance and denial from Russia, we clearly proved our case, in accordance with due process. In that regard, this ruling is an important moment for clean sport and athletes all over the world." Banka added his agency was "disappointed" the panel did not completely endorse WADA's initial sanctions, saying he believed a four-year ban was "proportionate and reasonable". "Ultimately Wada is not the judge but the prosecutor and we must respect the decision of the panel," he said. The lawyer for Russian whistleblower and former Moscow laboratory Head, Grigory Rodchenkov, whose evidence was key to Russia's suspension - said CAS's decision was "nonsensical and undeserved". "CAS reduced the ban by half, allowing Russian athletes to participate in international sporting events anyway, and in effect upheld an already-limited ban in name only," said Rodchenkov's lawyer, Jim Walden. --BBC--