The 28-year-old Olson traversed Champions Golf Club in Houston with the tragedy on her mind while intent on keeping a steely focus on the task at hand. The difficult circumstances didn’t prevent Olson from tying for second place at the prestigious event. South Korea’s A Lim Kim won the event with a 3-under 281 total, one shot ahead of Olson and South Korea’s Jim Young Ko. “Coming out this morning I had no idea what to expect,” Olson said after shooting a final-round 72 and earning a check for $487 286. “It was just one of those things I felt very weak and helpless the last couple days, and probably the same today on the golf course. I really believe the Lord just carried me through. “It just makes you realize how much bigger life is than golf. But I’m pleased with my finish overall and my performance.” Olson, playing in her 147th LPGA event, certainly couldn’t have foreseen such a situation after finishing the third round one shot behind leader Hinako Shibuno of Japan. Then the sudden death of her father-in-law, Lee Olson, occurred Saturday night and Sunday’s round was pushed back a day due to inclement weather. Details haven’t been divulged per the death of Lee Olson but Amy Olson’s husband, Grant, returned to their home state of North Dakota to support the family. Grant Olson is the linebackers coach at FCS power North Dakota State and married Amy in 2017. “You know, we had a really special relationship,” Amy Olson said of her father-in-law. “He’s a big, tough, military West Point guy, loved the Army, but had a particular soft spot for the women in his life, particularly his wife and daughter-in-law. “And just incredibly generous. Loved to hunt and fish, and we’ll have a lot of great memories to take from those activities, doing those with him.” Olson, who is ranked 68th in the world, battled emotions on the course and confirmed that yes indeed, she was singing as he walked down the 13th fairway. Just more evidence that it was an afternoon in which mental toughness was just as important as physical strength. “I knew I had to stay very mentally disciplined just to get through the day,” Olson said. “I allowed myself to think about what I’m grateful for, and I’ve got a long list.” --REUTERS--