Kohli helped the tourists recover from 32-2, but they slipped from 188-3 to 206-6 before closing on 233-6 in the day-night match in Adelaide. Kohli, who will miss the final three Tests because of the birth of his first child, was dismissed after a mix-up with Ajinkya Rahane. Mitchell Starc took 2-49 for Australia. The most eventful passage of play came in the final hour of the day. India lost three wickets in 6.3 overs, tilting the balance of the first day in Australia's favour. After Kohli and Rahane shared a solid stand of 88, vice-captain Rahane drove to Josh Hazlewood at mid-off, called for a single and then sent Kohli back. The skipper was well short of his ground when Nathan Lyon removed the bails. Players past and present went on social media to point out the poor decision-making from Rahane and comment on what a pivotal moment that could be in the match. Kohli, who now averages 72.14 from seven Test innings at the Adelaide Oval, watched on from the away team balcony as Rahane was trapped in front by a Starc inswinger for 42, while Hazlewood nipped one back to trap Hanuma Vihari lbw. Ravichandran Ashwin will resume on day two on 15 and Wriddhiman Saha nine. Earlier, Starc bowled Prithvi Shaw for a duck via an inside edge with the second ball of the series. Pat Cummins bowled Mayank Agarwal between bat and pad for 17, before Kohli ground out a partnership of 68 in 31 overs with Cheteshwar Pujara to help India stabilise on an occasionally sluggish pitch. Pujara, who took 147 balls to score his first boundary, eventually fell for 43 from 160 deliveries, caught via bat and pad at leg gully off Nathan Lyon despite a belated review. Australia spinner Nathan Lyon said "We're very happy with where we're at, but still have a lot of work to do. Obviously Kohli was batting extremely well so pretty happy with that one. Obviously a wicket like that or a run out especially Virat Kohli, was massive." India batsman Cheteshwar Pujara: "I feel we are just six down, Ash can bat, Saha can bat, even our lower order will try and contribute as many runs as possible. So we still have a very good chance of getting close to 275, 300 and you never know we can get 350 also." --BBC--