Households are still borrowing to fund houses and vehicles, as indicated by the rise in monthly and annual increase in mortgages and other loans and advances.

The depressed appetite to take up credit has been continuing throughout 2020, despite pacifying from treasury and the monetary policy committee.

Moreover, the status quo was expected to improve after the expiry of the lockdown and a slight economic improvement in the third quarter.

Cirrus Security analysis indicated that is now more than just depressed demand but business is deleveraging, which is a process of reducing the percentage of debt in the balance sheet of an entity.

It is the opposite of leveraging, which is the practice of borrowing money to acquire assets and multiply gains and losses.

The government has also announced it would not intervene much to steer recovery this year, apart from loan guarantees and credit facilities but would rather step in next year in February through the second Harambee Prosperity Plan.

This means the country's economic master plan on how to recover from the pandemic's damage is yet to be finalised.

For the past 12 months until October 2020, business communities have reduced their borrowing N$975 million ($65.4 million).

This is almost equivalent to what the Development Bank of Namibia has extended to the whole country last year.

Between September and October this year, commercial banks have lent N$353.2 million ($23.7 million) less money to the business community.

Debt does not only symbolise confidence in the economic outlook of the country, but shows expansion in production, resulting in employment, exports and more revenue in taxes.

In terms of commercial building loans, the business world has borrowed N$104.4 million ($7 million) less from September to October, while over the past year, borrowing to build or expand commercial buildings has gone down by $7 million.

The only category in business borrowing that grew was other loans and advances, which on a monthly basis increased by N$85 million ($5.7 million), compared to last year's increase of N$497.7 million ($33.4 million).

Interesting observations in terms of other loans and advances is that households' interest have increased with N$105.7 million ($7 million) between September and October and with N$961.6 million ($64.5 million) in the past year which is more than the business community.

Instalments and leasing that allow the business community to access productive equipment and other assets decreased by N$54.7 million ($3.6 million), while dropping by more than half a billion dollars in the past year.

At the end of October, individuals kept banks afloat as they continued to seek finances for residential purposes.

Data shows individuals borrowed N$1.7 billion ($114 million) more this year to buy houses compared to last year.

Households also borrowed more in October $7 million using other loans and advances, a category which is used to buy vehicles and assets other than houses.

Overdrafts, having access to more than has on their account increased by N$25.1 million ($1.6 million), which one would attribute to consumption given perfect information.

Overall, businesses and households owe lenders, mostly banks, N$102.9 billion dollars.

This is almost 60% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP) at market prices.

--Namibian-- 