Today, pay cuts and forced overtime have become common in short-staffed factories abandoned by hundreds of former employees, some too scared of catching the coronavirus to return, several workers told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Tigist, a 20-year-old seamstress, said some of her colleagues had not come back to Hawassa after they were furloughed in the early months of the pandemic, as the global garment industry was hammered by cancelled orders. In recent months, bosses eager to recover lost business have been forcing the remaining workers to pick up the slack, Tigist - whose name has been changed to protect her identity - and other workers said. “We had to work (more) to fill in the gap,” Tigist said in the tiny, bare room she rents with another worker for 275 birr (about $7) per month each, eating up almost half her monthly salary of 650 birr. “We fear catching the virus too but we must continue because we don’t have any other option,” she said, adding that she had to work to avoid being a “burden” to her poor family who live in a southern village. Since coming back from furlough, she said she has been working an extra six hours per week - work for which she has not been paid, instead being given occasional $0.13 top-up cards for her mobile phone. At least five other women reported similar experiences since factories reopened. They said they worked for manufacturers including KGG Garments PLC and Indochine Apparel PLC, which supply big brands such as The Children’s Place and Levi Strauss & Co. A manager at KGG Garments PLC and the head of human resources at Indochine Apparel PLC denied the workers’ allegations of unpaid, forced overtime and said their factories had not closed during the pandemic. Fitsum Ketema, General Manager of the Hawassa Industrial Park, said “there are no such practices in our park”. “Our companies are running their business respecting the law of the country,” Ketema said in a text message. The Children’s Place and Levi Strauss & Co did not respond to requests for comment. More than a dozen industrial parks were built in Ethiopia in recent years as part of ambitious plans to turn the poor, mainly agrarian nation into a manufacturing powerhouse, attracting investors with tax breaks, cheap loans and labour costs. The Hawassa industrial park, which lies some 275 kilometres (170 miles) south of the capital, Addis Ababa, was inaugurated in 2016 and employed about 28 000 workers before the outbreak. Most factories at the park are now running at pre-pandemic capacity again. Crowds of women, many not wearing facemasks, could be seen walking arm-in-arm out of the park at the end of their shift one day in November. Some were new recruits, recently hired to replace those who did not come back from furlough - some fearing the virus, others deterred by the harsh working conditions. Workers who were in Hawassa when the coronavirus crisis began said they have been struggling to meet their basic needs for most of the year, despite government measures aimed at protecting them. Ethiopia declared a five-month state of emergency in April to fight the coronavirus and mitigate its impact, prohibiting companies including clothing factories from laying off workers despite significant sales and order reductions. --Reuters--