Chasing 192, Malan and Jos Buttler shared 167 to power England to a nine-wicket win with 14 balls left. Buttler made an unbeaten 67 off 46 balls and Malan faced only 47 as they hit a combined 14 fours and 10 sixes. Earlier, Rassie van der Dussen's unbeaten 74 and Faf du Plessis' 50 not out helped South Africa post 191-3. Victory took England above Australia at the top of the International Cricket Council (ICC) rankings, although Justin Langer's side could return to number one if they win their series against India starting on Friday. The game at Newlands was also notable for England analysts on the dressing room balcony using a coded letter and number system to pass tactical advice on to captain Eoin Morgan during the South Africa innings. The England and Wales Cricket Board said the move had been approved by the ICC and was "intended as a live informational resource that the captain may choose to use or ignore as he wishes". A three-match one-day series between England and South Africa starts in Cape Town on Friday. South Africa will be without pace bowler Kagiso Rabada because of the adductor strain that ruled him out of the final T20. Ranked as the number one T20 batsman in the world, Malan often accumulates at the start of his innings, but he moved to 16 from three deliveries courtesy of some woeful South Africa bowling after Jason Roy fell cheaply again. Malan was strong all around the wicket, but as usual latched on to width superbly well, hitting 30 of his runs through the covers on a true surface. Man of the match in the second T20 for a match-winning 55, he moved to his half-century off 26 balls - his fastest in international cricket - and has now scored six half-centuries in his past 12 T20 games for England. The 33-year-old should have been run out on 36, when England were 75-1, but South Africa captain and wicketkeeper Quinton de Kock fumbled Temba Bavuma's throw. The only downside for Malan was a miscalculation when he ran a single with the scores level to be left stranded one short of a second T20 international hundred. Buttler at the other end was superb. He started in subdued fashion, scoring 22 off as many balls, but in the 11th over hit the inexperienced Lutho Sipamla for 21, including two massive sixes over mid-wicket. The next over, bowled by spinner Tabraiz Shamsi, went for 19 as England broke the back of the chase. The temperament Malan and Buttler showed in an ultimately comfortable chase will delight Morgan as England build towards next October's T20 World Cup in India. --BBC--