The association’s chief executive, Joseph Mamutse, was suspended by the Sports Commission last week, pending investigations, into allegations of flouting the national Covid-19 health regulations. The Sports Commission were not happy national teams were cleared to undertake foreign trips, without the necessary approval of the responsible Ministries of Youth, Arts, Sport and Recreation and Health and Child Care. he Sports Commission have ruled officials should be held accountable for the chaos which could have put athletes and officials at risk of contracting the coronavirus. They also suspended their director-general, Prince Mupazviriho, over the bungling. However, Mamutse, who feels he cannot be sanctioned by the SRC because of the FIFA clause that speaks against third party interference in the running of football by member associations, has written to the world football mother body. Mamutse approached FIFA General-Secretary, Fatma Samoura, challenging the decision by the country’s supreme sports regulatory body. The ZIFA chief executive also said he had not received official communication of his suspension by Sports Commission and had only learnt about the decision through a press release. “The Zimbabwe Football Association has learnt, through media reports, of the suspension of ZIFA General-Secretary, Joseph Mamutse, by the Sports and Recreation Commission,’’ wrote Mamutse. “We want to advise that, as of now, we have not received any official communication from the SRC. Once we get official communication, we will advise FIFA. “If the media statements circulating are true, we are of the firm belief that this constitutes interference by a third party in the administration of football in Zimbabwe.  “We believe that our statutes and judicial bodies have necessary provisions and capacity to deal with any intransigence committed by the General-Secretary if any. “As an Association, we are carrying all the necessary investigations to establish whether or not our General-Secretary acted outside provisions of football statutes or unlawfully. “Once we establish any wrong doing on the part of General-Secretary, appropriate action will be taken and we will notify you,” wrote Mamutse. The Sports Commission have reiterated they will not back down since there is no room for lawlessness, in domestic sport, and tough decisions will be taken to stop sport from sliding into a dark pit. --Herald--