This was revealed during this month's regional meetings facilitated by the Livestock Producers Organisation (LPO).

According to the summary of the meetings the Namibia Agricultural Union presented in the Weekly News, LPO has identified the need for members to better understand the sheep export value chain in the country.

The summary explained that in the past, if sheep abattoirs in Namibia only focused on the South African market, “they were not competitive in the open market compared to the live export of slaughter-ready sheep to South Africa”. However, according to LPO, Namibian producers are willing to deliver their sheep to Namibian sheep abattoirs if these institutions can pay a competitive price.

“To ensure sustainability, primary products must automatically be drawn to these value chains,” explained the producers' representative. However, they have indicated that it is not sustainable to force producers to sell their products to a certain value chain through market regulations.

The government rolled out a small-stock marketing scheme in 2004. However, it has failed to discourage the live export of sheep to South Africa, or to promote value-addition in the sector.

The government finally acknowledged the failed scheme last year and accepted a recommendation from the high-level panel of the Namibian economy to suspend the scheme.

The small-stock marketing scheme was implemented with the main objective of value-addition in the secondary industry sector and employment creation. However, local abattoirs are not offering competitive prices, and, as a result, producers are opting to export live sheep to South Africa.

According to the latest report of the Meat Board of Namibia (MBN), there are no quantity restrictions on the export of sheep. However, due to the prolonged drought last year, the sector is experiencing low stock levels.

According to MBN sheep marketing statistics for last month, only 313 447 were marketed compared to 681 436 marketed by the end of October last year.

From the 313 447 sheep marketed by the end of last month, 194 359 sheep were exported live (194 035 of them to SA) and 119 088 were slaughtered for local consumption and export.

Year-to-date, a 54% drop in sheep marketing was recorded by end of last month.

The sharp decline in stock levels has led to the closure of one of the three export abattoirs in the country.

“Due to poor throughput, Farmers Meat Market Mariental closed its doors on August 31 2020,” said MBN.

MBN indicated that the remaining sole sheep export abattoirs are also struggling to maintain economic throughput.

The statistics show that for the month of October 2020, no sheep were slaughtered for export purposes while only 923 sheep were slaughtered for export in September 2020 compared to 5 773 slaughtered in the same month last year.

Consequently, no carcass producer prices are available for October 2020. However, the average A2 sheep price in the Northern Cape stood at N$82.17 ($5.52)/kg.

Export abattoir performance for 2020 shows an 82.65% decline, while live exports have also declined by 53.52%.

The lamb dorper auction price for last month dropped to N$27 ($1.81)/kg from N$33 ($2.22)/kg the previous month.

According to MBN, “This may be a reflection of reduced competition for sheep among different marketing channels given the closure of export-approved facilities during the period.”

However, year-to-date average lamb dorper auction prices are still 21.80% higher at N$31.90 ($2.14)/kg that N$26.19 ($1.76) over the comparable 2019 ten-month period.  The decline in the national sheep herd is generally responsible for the decline in marketing.

MBN said the sector is projected to recover in a span of three years, with no prohibitive policies and with appropriate industry support.

Because there was no slaughter last month, no exports of sheep meat were recorded for the month. As a result, year-to-date, sheep meat exports have only amounted to 247 tons, which is 90% below the 2019 level, whereas sheep meat imports amounted to 150 tons.

Of the 150 tons imported this year, 23% (35 tons) were imported last month alone, reflecting the low local supply, as a result of weak slaughter activity.

In comparison to January-October 2019, sheep meat imports have increased by 76% and are now 39% of sheep meat exports, a very high ratio for Namibia.

LPO, in collaboration with Hartlief (owner of the Farmers Meat Abattoir at Mariental), is planning a research on whether sufficient value can be created for sheep meat in international markets to pay competitive prices to primary producers. This way, an export abattoir would be able to automatically attract sheep to this value chain.

A steering committee, consisting of producers and Hartlief, is being established, after which the terms of the research study will be agreed upon. The aim is to start this study early in 2021. --Nambian--