BP shares were trading 4.5% higher at 1115 GMT on Tuesday, on course for their biggest daily gain in over a year after the company’s profit beat forecasts for a twelfth quarter in a row. As Bernard Looney prepares to take the helm, BP struck a positive tone even as oil prices slumped to a near year-low on concerns over China’s coronavirus, bucking a trend among peers that saw a sharp slowdown in revenues last week. The shareholder rewards came as the London-based company reported a 26% drop in fourth-quarter profit, which easily beat forecasts, and $2.7 billion in charges. Cash flow rose by more than 10% in 2019 to $25.8 billion, despite lower commodity prices, as a result of higher production, particularly in the United States shale following the acquisition of BHP assets. Still, BP’s debt-to-capital ratio, known as gearing, rose by the end of 2019 from a year earlier, even though BP sold $9.4 billion of assets, underlying the strain oil companies face as demand for fuels and chemicals weakened last year. “Solid delivery in a tough environment,” Redburn Analyst, Stuart Joyner, concluded in a note, adding the focus would be on reducing debt. Rivals ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell and Chevron reported sharp drops in 2019 revenues due to softer demand, particularly in Asia. Dudley, 64, bows out after a decade at BP’s helm. He was abruptly ushered in as CEO in October 2010 after his predecessor, Tony Hayward, stepped down in the wake of the deadly Deepwater Horizon spill in the Gulf of Mexico. He has since led the company through a deep and long downturn and rising pressure from investors to adapt to the transition to more renewable energy. Looney, who takes over on Wednesday, is planning to expand BP’s climate targets and is considering a major overhaul to the structure of the 111-year-old company. “I am proud to be handing over a safer and stronger BP to Bernard and his team. I am confident that under their leadership, BP will continue to successfully navigate the rapidly-changing energy landscape,” Dudley said in a statement. --Reuters--