World Radio Day commemorates the role of radio in providing information and entertainment to millions of people globally. 

In South Africa, the history of radio can be traced back to 1923, when the first wireless broadcast was done in Johannesburg.
Under the theme ‘radio and diversity,’ the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (Unesco) 2020 edition of World Radio Day will focus on radio’s responsibility as ‘a platform for democratic discourse’. 

Through this, the international organisation is also encouraging radio stations worldwide to participate in the one-day celebration. Unesco’s also calling on radio broadcasters to consistently maintain ‘diversity in the newsroom and on the airwaves’ to guarantee variety of content and voices for its varied audiences. Radio World proceeded to speak to Mirta Lourenço chief, Media Development and Society, Communication and Information for Unesco on the significance of this day and the importance of radio in maintaining plurality and transparency. She said that World Radio Day is actually more than an event. She also said that there is not a continent that doesn’t celebrate World Radio Day. In fact, last year, the SABC also commemorated World Radio Day in South Africa by presenting Lesedi FM’s new state-of-the-art outside broadcasting van fitted with modern digital studio equipment. It is said that the history of radio in South Africa can be traced back to 1923 when the first wireless broadcast was made in Johannesburg. Proclaimed in 2011 by the Member States of Unesco, and adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2012 as an International Day, February 13 ultimately became World Radio Day. Radio is a powerful medium for celebrating humanity in all its diversity and constitutes a platform for democratic discourse. At the global level, radio remains the most widely consumed medium. This unique ability to reach out the widest audience means radio can shape a society’s experience of diversity, stand as an arena for all voices to speak out, be represented and heard. Unesco also created a World Radio Day celebration kit that is copyright free and may be used to promote World Radio Day. --TheSouthAfrican.com--