Currently the weather forecast is for cool and dry weather for the first stage of the race on Thursday, which will be ideal for the paddlers, particularly on the two long portages that are a key part of the 42kilometres first leg of the race. 

They will be guaranteed medium river levels for that stage thanks to the water released from Henley Dam outside Pietermaritzburg. The rain is forecast to start late on Thursday afternoon and continue on Friday and into Saturday. Friday's river levels will be excellent, thanks to extra water from Nagle dam supplementing the water from Henley dam, and any additional run-off from the overnight rains. What is exciting the paddlers is the forecast of steady rain around Durban, South Africa, on Friday that could see water flowing into the Mngeni River through the Mzinyathi and Molweni Rivers, adding to the 17 cumecs of water that will be flowing out of Inanda dam. With the Burma Road portage out-of-bounds in 2020, the entire field will paddle around the section of river that includes rapids like Graveyard, Island and Five Fingers, which are legendary river paddling obstacles when there is good water in the Mngeni. "While weather forecasts are not wholly reliable, conditions look set to provide the best Dusi paddling conditions in more than a decade," said Dusi organising committee head Shane le Breton. "A cool day with the paths dry underfoot is ideal for the first stage. And it really eases concerns about the water quality in Pietermaritzburg if there are no storms in the days before the race." "Day Two will see more water coming in from Nagle dam at the confluence with the Mngeni, and with a little run-off from the tributaries in the valley, this is the paddler's favourite stage," he said. "Water flowing into the Mngeni below Inanda Dam for Day Three will bump the river level up to conditions that we haven't seen for a long time, and the twenty kilometres from Tops Needle to Mango Rapid should be superb paddling. The perfect way to end a tough three days on the rivers."  
--News24--