Sudesh Amman, jailed in 2018 for possession of terrorist documents and disseminating terrorist publications, was shot dead by police on Sunday after he went on the rampage with a stolen 10-inch (25 cm) knife on a busy London street. Amman had previously praised the Islamic State militant group, shared an online al Qaeda magazine and encouraged his girlfriend to behead her parents. Johnson said the government would announce fundamental changes in dealing with people convicted of terrorism offences. “Those measures will build upon the actions we have already put in place,” said his Interior Minister, Priti Patel. She said there would be legislation to end the early release from prison of counter-terrorism offenders. “It is right that these individuals are kept behind bars,” Patel said. British politicians have repeatedly discussed tougher rules on terrorism, calls that increased after a former convict killed two people and wounded three more before police shot him dead near London Bridge in November. Johnson said that since that attack, the government had “moved quickly to introduce a package of measures to strengthen every element of our response to terrorism, including longer prison sentences and more money for the police”. Sunday’s attacker, Amman, had recently been released from prison, according to police. He went on the rampage at around 1400 GMT on Streatham High Road, having strapped a fake bomb to his body. He stabbed two people, while a third suffered minor injuries caused by shattered glass when police opened fire. Amman was under surveillance at the time of the attack by armed police, who shot him dead. In November 2018 he pleaded guilty to possessing terrorist documents and disseminating terrorist publications, and the following month he was sentenced to more than three years in prison. Ian Acheson, who carried out a review of the management of Islamist extremists in jail, said the prison service did not have the appetite or aptitude to manage terrorist offenders. “We may need to accept there are certain people who are so dangerous they must be kept in prison indefinitely,” he told BBC radio. Mark Rowley, formerly Britain’s most senior counter-terrorism police officer who was in post when Amman was arrested, said dozens of other people convicted of terrorism offences were due to be released soon. --Reuters--