The 2020 Nedbank Cup opens with title holders TS Galaxy taking on Chippa United at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight. The Rockets were shock champions last season, defeating Kaizer Chiefs in the final at Moses Mabhida Stadium to become the first second-tier team to win South Africa’s equivalent of the FA Cup. This time around they face an uphill battle in turning around recent poor form which has left them just a few points above the relegation zone in the GladAfrica Championship, but coach Dan ‘Dance’ Maselesa will be determined to prove a point to the Chilli Boys, one of his former clubs. An all second-tier clash on Thursday sees GladAfrica Championship leaders Ajax Cape Town host TS Sporting, with the Urban Warriors looking to avenge a recent league defeat at the hands of the Mpumalanga side, while Friday features the first all top-flight clash when Stellenbosch host Maritzburg United at the Athlone Stadium. Two further all top-flight games follow on Saturday, with Bloemfontein Celtic v AmaZulu in the afternoon and Mamelodi Sundowns hosting SuperSport United in a night game which is the pick of the round’s clashes. The Brazilians will be eager to gain revenge on Matsatsantsa for a defeat in the MTN8 earlier this season, and coach Pitso Mosimane always has his men fired up for the Tshwane derby. Saturday also sees potential giant-killings when Golden Arrows visit Dobsonville Stadium in Soweto to face minnows Vaal University, and Kaizer Chiefs host second-tier team Royal Eagles up the road at FNB Stadium. Though the Amakhosi have been in brilliant form in the Absa Premiership, they have often been the victim of cup upsets (most notably last year’s final!) and coach Ernst Middendorp will caution his team against complacency. The pick of Sunday’s games see an in-form Orlando Pirates host Bidvest Wits. The Buccaneers look a team rejuvenated under coach Josef Zinnbauer, but the Clever Boys are canny operators under Gavin Hunt and looking to erase the disappointment of their recent CAF Confederation Cup exit. Sunday also sees top-flight teams Cape Town City and Black Leopards face lower-league opponents in Mbombela United and North West University respectively, while the last 32 round wraps up on Tuesday 11 February with Zizwe United hosting Happy Wanderers and a derby clash between top-flight sides Polokwane City and Baroka FC – two clubs that could use a morale-boost to aid their battle against relegation. --AllAfrica--