The Northern Irishman was right in the hunt after an opening round of 63 at TPC River Highlands but fell off the pace after a third-round 69 on Saturday. He played some sensational golf in Sunday's final round, including draining a couple of monster putts for birdies, but couldn't avoid several costly errors and was unable to mount a serious charge, eventually finishing six shots off Dustin Johnson's winning score. "It's been frustrating in a way," McIlroy said. "There's been some really good stuff in there, but then just some really stupid mistakes. Even today, like I got off to a good start and then bogeyed some easy holes. "It's a little too up and down, a little bit roller coaster-ish, where it didn't really feel like that before we stopped. It was sort of quite consistent and sort of building sort of rounds very nicely, a lot of pars, a few birdies, not many mistakes. "Just over the last few weeks I've made too many mistakes, too many bogeys, too many loose shots, and that was sort of what it was this week, as well. "My decision making was terrible the last few days. Just some stupid shots and trying to take too much on at times. I think probably playing a little bit and just being a little more thoughtful on the course. Yeah, it's just dumb mistakes in there that I don't usually make." McIlroy feels taking some time off will help him clear his head and get rid of some of the frustration he's experiencing. "The way I'm feeling right now, I feel like a couple of weeks off," he added. "Mentally it's just getting back into that tournament routine, tournament mode, and that's why I wanted a couple of weeks off more than anything else. "It's just the mental aspect of it, and especially when you are frustrated. I've been frustrated on the course the last three weeks, not being sort of in contention, and it sucks going off in the middle of the pack on a Sunday, knowing that you don't really have a chance. "Yeah, a couple of weeks at home maybe, just reset and start again." --news24--