This is according to Herschel Jawitz, CEO of Jawitz Properties. The SARB Thursday announced a 25-basis points rate cut, lowering the repo rate to 3.5% and the prime lending rate to 7%. The repo rate is the benchmark interest rate at which the Reserve Bank lends money to other banks. So far this year, the SARB has already lowered interest rates by 300 basis points. "The current market is one to seriously consider if you are a buyer who has a secure monthly income and has a long-term view of where you want to live or invest. The cumulative effect of the interest rate cuts has reduced monthly payments by almost 20% from where it was in March this year," says Jawitz. According to Marcél du Toit, CEO of residential property platform Leadhome, the rate cut would boost the property market even further, following a 45% increase in buyer activity since lockdown restrictions relaxed. Rhys Dyer, CEO of Ooba, adds that, after extremely low business levels in April and May, it has received a flood of home loan applications in June, up 51% compared to June 2019. This high level of activity has continued into July, with volumes in July up over 60% on the same period last year. In June, Ooba's ratio of home loan applications from first-time homebuyers increased by 12% as buyers who previously could not afford a home are entering the market for the first time due to lower interest rates. The average age of Ooba's applicants is now 36 years old. Samuel Seeff, chairperson of the Seeff Property Group, says he remains of the view that the SARB should be taking a more aggressive stance with deeper cuts to boost the economy and property market during this unprecedented economic recession. "People are not spending and the economy is simply not moving. More needs to be done to give momentum to the economy and property market," he says. "While we are generally in a buyer's market, they must be realistic with their offers. Although there is good demand in the market, there are very few desperate sellers." --Fin24--