The letter, which had the subject line "Do Black Lives Matter?", was sent to Mthethwa last Friday ( July10) during a tense few days last week where cricket personalities clashed on Twitter over the ground-breaking, worldwide movement. After Proteas fast bowler Lungi Ngidi expressed his support for Black Lives Matter, former players Boeta Dippenaar and Pat Symcox quickly criticised him, saying "All Lives Matter". CSA sent a press release last Thursday saying it stood in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. Ramela, however, said in his letter to Mthethwa that CSA hadn't practiced what they preached by appointing eight white males to executive positions, including within its affiliates, in the past six months. "In the last six months all eight new appointments within the executive management of cricket (CSA and its affiliates) have all been white males," Ramela wrote. "Acting CEO, Dr Jacques Faul, of CSA released a compelling statement where CSA expressed its support for the Black Lives Matter movement. Before those words went cold in his mouth, Western Cape Cricket Chairperson, Nic Kock, announced the appointment of interim CEO Albertus Kennedy. "Honourable Minister, transformation is a legislated policy, it is a law in South Africa. Therefore, whether Black Lives Matter or not, in this country it is a legislated endeavour that rests with not how me, you or anybody in the leadership feels. "Those who consistently choose to be ignorant about this law are to be reminded that ignorance is no excuse for breaking the law. For they are breaking the law and must face the consequences. "Minister, it is time that your office invoked every law at its disposal whether be it suspension of a non-transformed sporting organisation (s), or issuing fines, or choking funding." Cricket SA has been under the cosh for some time regarding the fiasco surrounding the suspension of its Chief Executive Officer, Thabang Moroe, which has yet to be resolved some seven months after the fact. However, renewed criticism went the sport's way when former cricketers such as Ashwell Prince, Hussein Manack and Ethy Mbhalati took to Twitter to express the ill-treatment of black players within the game. Mthethwa also recently criticised CSA at a parliamentary briefing in June, saying he felt insulted by the organisation's 'laissez-faire' approach to transforming the game. Mthethwa said to CSA President, Chris Nenzani, at the time: "I felt insulted when you said you only take people on merit. When we talk of cricket and go to the heart and core‚ you look at the CEO‚ you look at the director of cricket and the coach; you'll find the deputy being an African." The former Cape Cobras captain, Ramela, was also vocal in 2015 as the leader of "Black Cricketers in Unity", which wrote to CSA to stop using black players for "window dressing" after Khaya Zondo was denied an opportunity to represent South Africa on a tour to India. Ramela, this time, wrote that it was "lawless" to defy South Africa's transformation legislation, which he said threatened the future of black cricketers that came after him. "As a professional athlete, I did not get to reach the peak of my potential. Therefore my career ... abruptly ended because of this lawlessness," he expressed. "I refuse to allow the same thing to happen as an administrative professional. If, as black professionals, we cannot be afforded a seat at the table then such tables must seize to exist in this country. Thus, such tables must be collapsed to give birth to the tables that are a true reflection of a South African society." --News24--