The North African country has attracted a wave of foreign investor interest in the past three months, emboldened by fresh financing from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and short-term local debt offering yields of around 13%, among the highest in emerging markets. Bankers and economists warn, however, that the yield bonanza masks an economy with weak prospects and heightened political risk, with the Cairo bourse falling on several days this month on fears of a Libya intervention. Parliament gave President, Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, last week the green light for possible military intervention in Libya. A deployment of armed forces into Libya could lead to higher military spending at a time when COVID-19 is already hitting the budget deficit. "Obviously the IMF support package has reassured foreign investors and that is why there has been an improvement inflows, but the fundamentals are still weak," said Zeina Rizk, Executive Fixed Income Director at Arqaam Capital. "The virus is raging, tourism is down, and government spending" needed to boost the economy" will add further leverage," she added. Adding further uncertainty, Egypt has failed so far to reach a deal with Ethiopia to regulate flows from its Grand Renaissance Dam which threatens its main water source. "The political risk has deteriorated," said Hasnain Malik, head of equity research at Tellimer Research. The tourism industry, meanwhile, which makes up as much as 15% of GDP, is unlikely to recover soon, analysts said. Egypt, unlike Tunisia and Morocco, has not been added to the European Union's list of safe COVID-19 countries. Egypt's reported COVID-19 cases have been falling in the past weeks but the number of new infections remains too high for now to lift the travel warning, diplomats said. Tourist flights to Red Sea resorts have been rising since airports reopened on July 1, but normal occupancy rates would be only back by March or April next year, said Alaa Akel, head of the Egyptian Hotels Association Red Sea. More than half of the hotels are back in business after two months of lockdown and those still closed will probably re-open by November, he added. The central bank and state press centre did not respond to questions sent by Reuters. The government expected growth of 3.5% in the fiscal year 2020/21, which began in July, but growth could slow to 2% if the coronavirus crisis continues until year-end, Planning Minister, Hala al-Saeed said in May. --Reuters--