The governing body said via a press statement that the 3TCricket match, with three teams involved, will be played on Nelson Mandela International Day on Saturday, July18. The match was initially scheduled for June 27 before being postponed due to ongoing fears over the Covid-19 pandemic. But Wednesday's news comes after return to practice and play approval was granted by minister of sport Nathi Mthethwa. The match details remain the same, with Centurion's SuperSport Park the host venue and the starting time set for 11:00. The match will also still be broadcast live on SuperSport 2, with the team sheets not undergoing any changes. The three teams competing for the Solidarity Cup are the Eagles captained by AB de Villiers, Kingfishers captained by Kagiso Rabada and the Kites captained by Quinton de Kock. "It's very exciting to get live cricket, featuring our top players, back on our TV screens again," commented CSA's acting CEO Jacques Faul. "I can't think of a more appropriate day on which to hold this game than Nelson Mandela Day when its prime objective is to raise funds for those who have been badly affected by the coronavirus. "It is still nearly three weeks away, so it also gives our players more time to prepare properly and to minimise the chance of injuries. "I would like to thank the government and our own medical team once again for everything they have done to make a return to training and playing possible and I would also like to add special thanks to the incredible sponsors involved in this event for their continued commitment towards the match and its beneficiary, the Hardship Fund," Faul concluded. Nomkhita Nqweni, interim CEO of the Solidarity Fund, added: "The Solidarity Cup will provide a perfect opportunity to demonstrate the message behind our Citizens in Solidarity campaign. "This message is to reinforce all the very necessary, appropriate behaviours in the time of this pandemic and also, to remind all of South Africa of our ability to work together, to find unique solutions in a time of crisis."
--News24--