Acting Chief Inspector of Petroleum Affairs, Andreas Sheehama said the freeze was put in place because the ministry is reviewing the procedures and requirements for granting of new fuel retail and wholesale licences as per petroleum products and energy regulations of 2000.

Sheehama said once the review is done, the new requirements and procedures for granting fuel retail and wholesale licences will be communicated to the public. “The Ministry of Mines and Energy is hereby informing the public that no applications and/or drawings for new fuel retail sites and wholesale licences will be accepted or received until December 31,” Sheehama said.

Sheehama, however, said applications for consumer installation certificates and amendments of all existing and operating licences will be received and processed as usual.

The ministry also announced that petrol and diesel prices will remain at June levels for the month of July, as the National Energy Fund absorbs under recoveries on behalf of motorists.

In the monthly fuel release, Senior Public Relations Officer at the ministry, Andreas Simon, said the fuel pump prices at Walvis Bay, which is the port of entry will remain unchanged at N$10.35 ($0.70) per litre for petrol and N$11.13 ($0.75) per litre for diesel. “This review has been finalised taking into account the need to ensure the orderly importation of fuel products into the country,” Simon said.

According to the monthly review, an under recovery on diesel of minus 141 67 cents a litre and an under recovery on 95 octane unleaded petrol of minus 205 26 cents a litre on the basic fuel price landed at Walvis Bay as calculated on June 25 2020.

“Under normal circumstances, such under recoveries would have warranted an increase in the pump prices. However, under the prevailing economic hardships, the ministry has decided to keep fuel pump prices unchanged. This is coupled with the fact that the under recoveries have found the NEF in a healthy financial position,” Simon added.

The ministry will continue monitoring the market in the months ahead to see how best the prevailing pump prices can be brought on par with the market, he added.

Simon further said although the local currency appreciated during the review period, it was not strong enough to offset the corresponding increase in the international price of petrol and diesel.

“After the oil price crash in April, the global oil market has begun to pick itself up as countries begin to open up their economies following the lockdowns in March owing to COVID-19. As a result, demand for oil has started to surge and so have the prices of various petroleum products,” he said. --TheNamibian-- 