But, when it comes to South African soccer, it is a case of tottering on three separate tightropes as the resumption of the Absa Premiership continues to rest on a shaky foundation. And seemingly attempting to maintain their footing without much consistency and certainty is sports minister Nathi Mthethwa, acting SAFA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Tebogo Motlanthe and acting PSL CEO Mata Madlala. Of course, those truly pulling the strings are the policy-making South African government in entirety, SAFA president Danny Jordaan and PSL chairperson Irvin Khoza. But it is effectively the surrogates who are feeling the heat in finding the means for resuming soccer in the country in the midst of the tragic coronavirus pandemic. It's an excruciatingly difficult task, no doubt, but to be quite frank "The Three Ms", Mthethwa, Motlanthe and Madlala - or is it those from whom they take orders? - have not thus far done a very good job, with their decisions and pronouncements regularly indecisive, incoherent, erratic and even downright wrong. Take, for example, Mthethwa suggesting that SAFA should oversee how the PSL is going about the business of piecing together the resumption of soccer when the financially powerful professional organisation "runs its affairs like any other business," as crusty "Iron Duke" Khoza has pronounced. Motlanthe and SAFA in its entirety have been accused by members of the PSL at times of sabotaging the needed comeback operation as part of an ongoing, if often denied feud between the two organisations. Yet only on Wednesday, Motlanthe declared almost triumphantly that world controlling body FIFA has now provided SAFA with permission to delay the start of a resumed Absa Premiership, while further declaring it would be a tragedy if the financially-conscious PSL decided to abandon the remaining matches. Admirable sentiments indeed from the acting SAFA CEO, particularly as many countries around the world have shown major soccer leagues can be reinstated successfully under similar circumstances. But, at the same time, it is a sad irony that FIFA had already declared more than a month ago that decisions on the timing of the resumption and completion of leagues worldwide was basically in the hands of soccer officials in each country and could only be halted by governments because of the pandemic. A little late for SAFA to come up with the news, it would seem. So it is fair to say that in many ways the tightrope walks have been transformed into dizzy, disturbing merry-go-rounds, with the hope, nevertheless, that South African soccer will still ultimately land on its feet and a much-needed boost of morale achieved through having local soccer to savour in the midst of a wider climate of tragedy. --news24-- 