Faul was asked to step in to fill the Chief Executive void following Thabang Moroe's suspension last December and has helped navigate the organisation through some seriously choppy waters in the seven months in charge. He ensured that cricket survived the Covid-19 impact cancelled tours and tournaments, securing full wage payments during the period in the sport, and bringing a new tournament, 3 Team Cricket, which was well received. However, Sport24 received an anonymous tip-off on Wednesday that Faul had resigned from his post and that staff would be informed of the fact on Thursday, with Faul to return to his role at Northerns Cricket on September 15. But CSA President Chris Nenzani rebuffed those rumours, saying Faul's initial secondment agreement with the company had expired at the end of June and that there was a "month-to-month" term in place. "Jacques has not resigned," he said. "Remember, he's on a secondment agreement that we have with Northerns Cricket, which came to an end at the end of June. Now he's on a month-to-month arrangement. "Eventually his term will expire and once it has he will return to Northerns. As of this point, we are working on this internally. He has definitely not resigned but we are preparing for his eventual exit. "We're hoping to make an announcement once everything is in place. I can't confirm nor deny the September 15 date being his last day." Faul also denied rumours of his resignation. His September departure, however, now means CSA is in a race against the clock to wrap up the disciplinary process against its suspended full-time CEO, Moroe. Last week, the organisation sent out a statement saying its board received the first part of the forensic report into cricket's affairs and in relation to Moroe. "Using this report as a point of departure the board has implemented a process that will provide finality to this unfortunate situation," CSA said in a statement. Failure to reinstate Moroe or if the forensic report found adverse findings against him, CSA would need to again appoint an interim CEO to fill the position. --news24--