As the province continues to account for well over half of the national number of coronavirus infections, Tygerberg Hospital is already under pressure. Doctors and medical staff at the state facility earlier this week reported that over 200 nurses had been off ill, as the infection rate in the Western Cape increased by hundreds daily. On Wednesday, 11 262 cases were confirmed in the province. A total of 211 people died of Covid-19 in the Western Cape, while 5 105 have recovered. There were 470 people in high care in hospital, while 143 were in ICU. Those on the frontline told News24 a shortage of nurses was their biggest issue. On Tuesday, staff explained that the hospital's intensive care unit had 48 beds. Of these, 25 are for Covid-19 patients, and all are occupied. The hospital wards were also full, News24 was reliably informed. What this means, one staff member explained, was that those in need of ICU beds "won't be able to get one until someone dies". A tent erected for screening and testing is being turned into a field hospital because of a lack of beds and all departments at the hospital have had to send personnel to assist with screening and swabbing, as well doctors to the ICU and the dedicated coronavirus wards. News24 reached out to the hospital for comment on their current situation on Tuesday. Despite committing to furnishing a response by Wednesday, none had been received. Twenty kilometres away, the Mitchells Plain District Hospital is also under pressure. "All elective surgeries have been postponed during Covid-19 and only lifesaving, obstetrics and gynaecology procedures are currently being conducted," provincial health department spokesperson Monique Johnstone told News24. She confirmed that staff members at the hospital have tested positive and are in self-isolation, together with their close contacts. A hospital source told News24 that at least six staff members had tested positive in its operating theatre, and a further seven were quarantined and awaiting results. The hospital did not confirm the exact numbers. Hospital management was concerned about their employees' health and safety, she continued, and were mindful to ensure a safe work environment in line with the departmental guidelines, while also emphasising adherence to Covid-19 safety measures to prevent transmission in the workplace. --News24-- 