"All of this is lies. I have not killed any Tutsis. I was working with them," Félicien Kabuga told a French court during a bail hearing. The 84-year-old businessman was arrested earlier this month in a suburb in Paris after 26 years on the run. He is alleged to have backed and armed ethnic Hutu militias who slaughtered about 800,000 people in 1994. Over 100 days they targeted members of the minority Tutsi community and their political opponents, irrespective of their ethnic origin. Kabuga also founded and funded the notorious Radio Télévision Libre des Mille Collines (RTLM), a Rwandan broadcaster that actively encouraged people to search out and kill anyone who was from the Tutsi ethnic group. In 1997 he was indicted by The International Criminal Tribunal (ICTR) for Rwanda on seven counts including with genocide and crimes against humanity. The UN tribunal wound up its operations in 2015 and its duties were transferred to a body at The Hague that handles outstanding war crimes cases and is pressing for Kabuga's extradition. Bail rejected His lawyers argue that Kabuga, who was detained in a dawn raid on May 16 in the suburb of Asnières-sur-Seine where he had been living under a false identity, should be tried in France instead of being transferred. BBC Great Lakes reporter Samba Cyuzuzo says Kabuga's denial in court, made in Kinyarwanda and translated by an interpreter, were his first public comments in more than a quarter of century. Police say during this time he used 28 aliases to evade capture. The court rejected a request to release Kabuga on the grounds of age and ill health as prosecutors said the octogenarian was a flight risk. It will rule on the extradition request on June 3. Whilst on the run Kabuga is alleged to have stayed in many countries in East Africa, including Kenya, where he and his family had business interests. The search is still on for six other Rwandans accused of genocide. Dozens of Hutus were convicted for their role in the killings by the ICTR and hundreds of thousands more faced trial in community courts in Rwanda. --BBC--