The drama around the report and its contents is only likely to increase as committee members come to terms with it ahead of another meeting with CSA, a date for which will be scheduled once members have read the report. While the summary of the report, made public on Monday, paints a picture of a dysfunctional organisation, where the country’s laws were flouted and the board of directors made little to no use of its oversight measures, the full report is likely to offer more in-depth reasons for why Cricket SA finds itself in the position it currently does. Marius Schoeman, one of CSA’s independent directors who initiated the move to hand over the full report during Tuesday’s fiery engagement with the portfolio committee, also confirmed that the committee would not be receiving the 468-page document and its various attachments from CSA’s lawyers Bowman Gilfillan, but straight from Fundudzi Forensic Services, so as to eliminate any concerns about tampering. Meanwhile, Cricket SA confirmed yesterday that the advertisements to apply for independent directors which closed last week and were for four positions on the board, are part of the federation’s “road map” leading up to the AGM, which has been rescheduled to take place on December 5. Parliament demands undoctored CSA report Cricket South Africa’s prevarication over the controversial forensics report has drawn the ire of the Parliamentary Committee on Sport. The troubled body has now been given until Friday to produce a full and undoctored report. Committee chair Beauty Dlulane spoke to Jeremy Maggs on this. Courtesy #DStv403 In terms of those four positions, once they have been filled, they will take the number of independent directors to five - the same as it has been for the last eight years. How that would ensure that it fulfilled the Nicholson recommendations, Cricket SA did not explain. As part of processes to resolve the administrative problems which had forced the postponement of the AGM on September 5, Cricket SA committed to implementing the Nicholson recommendations, which stated that the majority of the board of directors needed to be made up of independent directors, which is currently not the case. --IOL--