This was revealed by Minister of Commerce, Industry and Trade, Manqoba Khumalo, during the launch of FuelEx Eswatini held at the Hilton Garden Inn on Monday. He said the empowering of breadwinners to provide for their kinfolk would have a direct impact on the overall economic and social health of our country, enhancing the quality of life people and be able to enjoy. The minister said it was also hoped that the entry of FuelEx into the domestic market will stimulate entrepreneurship, which will in turn offer undeniable benefits in the long-run. “It was aptly noted at the Eswatini Economic Conference 2019 when discussing our country’s past, present and future prospects that innovation is a catalyst for social and economic development, and as such a precondition for progress. “FuelEx will act as an enabler to those who either currently run or plan to run businesses in the fuel sector, expanding opportunities for job creation as new MSMEs are formed. We are hopeful that the youth and women, in particular, will target these opportunities and benefit from FuelEx’s services. “The consistent supply of fuel to even the farthest corners of the country will see economic activity in these communities being improved due to better logistical capability, in other words, presenting people with the opportunity to be mobile and as a result economically,” he said. Meanwhile, FuelEx Legal and Corporate Affairs Director, Manqoba Ndlangamandla, remarked about the positive impact on employment figures surrounding communities in Manzini and the country as a whole. “The employment opportunities that FuelEx will bring are twofold. Not only will FuelEx employ people at its depot in Lwandle, but there will also be opportunities for interested parties to start businesses and buy fuel to supply their own operations. “The demand for diesel and petrol on the continent is rapidly increasing due to demands stemming from economic growth, steady infrastructure development and the current power crisis being experienced in many African regions,” he said. --Observer--