Africa accounts for nearly half of the countries worldwide where homosexuality is outlawed, according to the review, published in March and updated in December here last year. A judge in Nigeria on Tuesday threw out a case against 47 men charged with public displays of affection with members of the same sex, ending what had widely been seen as a test of the country’s laws banning homosexual relationships. - The High Court of Kenya last year upheld the law criminalising consensual same-sex sexual activity, adding it is “an effective method to contain the country’s HIV epidemic”. - In 2017, Chad criminalised same-sex acts in what the ILGA review called “a worrying example of legal regression in the region”. - Although homosexuality is not a crime in Egypt, discrimination against the LGBT+ community is rife. Gay men are frequently arrested and typically charged with debauchery, immorality or blasphemy. - Ivory Coast does not criminalise gay sex but there have been recorded cases of detention and prosecution. - Tanzania has banned provision of condoms and lubricants to LGBT+ health clinics and, since 2018, increased the use of forced anal examinations. - Convictions on the grounds of sodomy in Tunisia have reportedly been on the rise. - In Kenya, lesbian, bisexual and queer women have experienced violence and marginalisation not only from general society but also from within the wider LGBT+ community. - Broad protection against discrimination based on sexual orientation exists in three countries: Angola, Mauritius and South Africa. Employment protection exists in the same three countries plus Botswana, Cape Verde, Mozambique and Seychelles. - South Africa is the only African country where gay marriage is legal and where the constitution protects against discrimination based on sexual orientation. In March 2018, the cabinet approved a bill criminalising hate crimes and hate speech. However, South Africa has high rates of rape and homophobic crime. - Botswana decriminalised homosexuality in June last year, although the ruling is subject to appeal. - Gabon’s Senate voted in June to decriminalise homosexuality. --reuters--