The killing of farm manager Brendan Horner sparked riots at the start of this month, and prompted President Cyril Ramaphosa to make a statement urging South Africans to "resist attempts... to mobilise communities along racial lines". The farmers, who accuse the government of failing to protect them from violent crime, started arriving in pick-up trucks ahead of a court hearing in Senekal for Horner's two suspected killers. The accused Sekwetje Isaiah Mahlamba, 32, and 44-year-old Sekola Piet Matlaletsa, both residents of Takalatse in Fateng-Tse-Ntsho township in Paul Roux, are due to appear before the Senekal Magistrate’s Court. The farmers mostly wore khaki shirts and shorts, and a few wore military outfits. "We are getting tired now of all the farm murders," said Geoffrey Marais, 30, a livestock trader from Delmas, where a woman was strangled to death two weeks ago. "Enough is enough. They (the government) must start to prioritise these crimes." The radical Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a counter-march attended by thousands of protesters wearing trademark red T-shirts and berets in the town centre. ECONOMIC INEQUALITY The EFF blames South Africa's problems on what it says is a continued stranglehold of the economy by whites. Several buses full of EFF supporters drove past the farmers singing “kill the boer (farmer)” out of the window as they headed into town. "We are not scared of them. We are going to get them on Friday. We are going to face white men face to face," the EFF's firebrand leader Julius Malema was quoted as saying in the local press this week. "I'm here because of white people... taking advantage of us," EFF supporter Khaya Langile, who came from the Johannesburg township of Soweto. Tensions have been heightened by a government plan to expropriate white-owned land without compensation as part of an effort to redress economic inequalities that remain stark a quarter of a century after the end of apartheid. Roughly 70% of privately-owned farmland in South Africa is owned by whites, who make up less than 9% of the country's population of 58 million. --Iol--