AstraZeneca’s large, late-stage US trial has been on hold since September 6, after a participant in the company’s United Kingdom (UK) trial fell ill with what was suspected to be a rare spinal inflammatory disorder called transverse myelitis. The sources, who were briefed on the matter but asked to remain anonymous, said they have been told the trial could resume later this week. It was unclear how the FDA would characterise the illness, they said. An FDA spokesperson declined to comment. The agency is requiring researchers conducting the trial to add information about the incident to consent forms signed by study participants, according to one of the sources. UK regulatory officials previously reviewed the illness and determined there was “insufficient evidence to say for certain” that it was or was not related to the vaccine. It permitted the trial to resume in the UK, according to a draft of the updated consent form shared with Reuters. “In this case, after considering the information, the independent reviewers and Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency recommended that vaccinations should continue,” the draft consent form stated. “Close monitoring of the affected individual and other participants will be continued.” Regulators in Brazil, India and South Africa also previously allowed AstraZeneca to resume its vaccine trials there. AstraZeneca, which is developing the vaccine with Oxford University researchers, had been seen as a frontrunner in the race to produce a vaccine for COVID-19 until its trials were put on hold to investigate the illness. Early data from large-scale trials in the US of vaccines from Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc are expected some time in November. Johnson & Johnson (J&J) last week paused its Phase III COVID-19 vaccine trial to investigate an unexplained illness in a study participant. At the time of the announcement, the company did not know whether the volunteer had been given its vaccine or a placebo. A J&J spokesperson on Tuesday said the study remains on pause as the company continues its review of medical information before deciding to restart the trial. J&J noted last week that its “study pause” was voluntary. By contrast, AstraZeneca’s trial is on “regulatory hold,” which is imposed by health authorities. Vaccines are seen as essential to helping end the pandemic that has battered economies around the world and claimed more than 1 million lives, over 220 000 of them in the US. --Reuters--